:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       79b7d655-a562-4a26-ae31-0036ccbd2087
:END:
#+TITLE: 25 February 2023 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2023-02-25 Sat>

* 25 February 2023  — Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:


** NA
- Cats have a somewhat fraught relationship
- All of my meetings have been moved to Friday

** JC
- Festival
- Professional-grade bass tuner 

** LV
- Now has a new client who is a postdoc in biology who wants to work w/ org roam & org mode
- Attended dressed for success
- Hand is somewhat better (maybe): dry hands with infections, antibiotics needed
  - I used to religiously hydrate when I was done swimming, but you can’t trust the feeling of dryness
- Doc said not to swim; obviously that’s not happening
- We’re almost at the live

** AT 
- Deep dive into how you build your own road bike (touring)
- Highly involved in bike repair 
- JC: Bike riding like David Foxcroft would be a good plan

* Meta points

** TODO Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:

** TODO Pre-PAR — Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?

* Agenda (Part 1) Next steps
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Real-time note-taking
** Report
*** Local Actors
*** Satisfy UWE’s needs
*** Get back to 
** Next steps
*** Continued skill development
- Leo’s prioritising stuff that will make him hireable as a generalist, can’t justify time w/o getting paid.
- E.g., tags &c. would be nice to fix up, but we’d need to have time available to support the learning curve
*** Lunch with Jeremy
*** What do we want to do with Hyperreal?
**** A “social enterprise”?
**** What would we like to be doing
***** Our tech skills are, collectively, at a new level
- LV: I’d love to keep working on this part, Org Roam, Org Mode, getting paid enough to be able to keep up the current lifestyle
- Would eventually lead to a more attractive profile & eventually being paid at the typical software developer level
***** The method
- This is the meat & potatoes, and we can keep working on this and link it to the tech
- Sky is the limit, but we need to build the ladders!
  - E.g., features that Joe requested need us to get into React (i.e., frontend stuff); what took most of the time so far was mostly backend stuff.
  - I’d like to be learning the fundamentals 
**** How to get there?
- Funding bids?
- Other?
- ?
***** Building towards another proposal, w/ Hyperreal contributing
- As part of something bigger...
***** Current project(s), leading to the bare minimum/baseline
- Snippet project w/ user authentication, entry forms for sending stuff to the website, saving it into a database
- Could go into Sqlite3, and then update the website from that
- So, we could have 2 websites, e.g., for sending (via a simple text box), and management/visualisation
- This could all be ready by end of March, but only if I have a guarantee of money
- Maybe we can orient to /smaller pots of money to get the biggest gain/.
  - Probably necessary before we get to external funding sources
  - Universities are throwing money at tech right now
****** Methods, product, etc., needs to be clear
- Even the smallest grants, Hyperreal needs a definition of what we’re applying for
- We’re talking about people who won’t have experience w/ AI
******* How can we pitch, even to people who we know
- ... it still feels like a slightly fuzzy beast, even to Abby
****** Snippetbox demo
- Reached via following fundamentals
*** AI tutoring?
- https://hyperreal.enterprises/ isn’t really up to date w/ what we’ve been doing: update it
- This was focusing on how knowledge could become a tutor
- Now we’re focusing on taking people’s knowledge and sharing it for action
- Even in Bristol, we spoke about so many projects!
- There are lots of people doing great things, but they aren’t really talking to each other
- We can bring people together; and, especially now, they don’t have to be in the same room
- So, what are the steps that we need to outline to get there.
- Put, what we want to get to... e.g., "a platform that updates over time, for citizens as well as policymakers"
  - Quantitative stuff should also get there
**** Current model allows self-directed, peer guided learning, not AI!
- But the EPSRC grant would allow us to add a bolt-on around this
*** Do we go for other grants?  Angel investors?

* BREAK                                                                 
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

- Joe had previously put in [[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YWeRoWFV_f6MgmlvhbQ37JvC3TyZddr3jow8eV5mwvA/edit#heading=h.bdqqkxgnv5t3][this small grant proposal]] for Brookes
  - It wasn’t funded, was it b/c it was fuzzy?

* Agenda (Part 2) - A set of questions we can systematically talk through
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

- To unfuzzy things
- High level

** What have we accomplished thus far?
- /(i.e. “What can we put in the next grant?”)/
- We had 4 workshops (Bristol x2; Arizona, PLoP)
  - W/ success indicators like:
    - “As long as people leave energise, we’ve ticked the ‘light’ box.”
    - “Does it spur further action?”
- Tech side: Org Roam UI decoupling
- Debrief documents: methods for workshop, websites
- We have a slipbox that works; and a Discord that collects more information
- We’ve made great connections
- We were part of a larger grant of interdisciplinary participants, w/ £50K
- We brought together attendees from a wider multidisciplinary group
** What is our mission: what do we stand for?
- /(This is the north-star: a consise explanation of the organisations’ reason for existence.)/
- We want to /build bridges across disciplines/
- In order to facilitate collective knowledge sharing, w/ an action prioritisation
- Facilitating better collective work, whereby people manifest their common ground effectively, so that we can have citizens coming to the platform w/ their respective expertise, working from a common framework, enacting action towards a better future
*** Cf. “The Mission Economy”
- E.g., /supporting a guerilla approach to social change (since 2023)/.
*** What is the hard thing we should pick?
- Finding methods and tools that ultimately enable collective action from local to more global circles
- Citizens-to-experts
** What is our vision: what is the impact we’d like to make?
- /(This is how we get there.)/
*** We want a spirit of light creative work in how we go about things
*** What do we ask LV to develop next?
*** Represent what we’ve accomplished so far in a digestible way
*** Using knowledge management tools for collective aims
- Like a challenger to Google documents; there are lots of things for /tracking actions/
- ... but not much that’s /knowledge-first/.
*** Various specialist contexts exist
- Buildings, hospitals, city centres...
- How can we create discussions between different pools expertise?
  - In different locales, or other contexts?
*** Driven by science, enabled by tech
- /Reduce distance between collective knowledge sharing and collective action./
- We’ve talked a lot about serendipity & diversity, creating opportunities for action that maximise the potential for serendipitous solutions: this matches AIF; if we narrow opportunities for action we become brittle in a world that’s changing
- We want to create maleable/adaptable/resilient/[anti-fragility?] systems

** The fuzzy annexe for things that aren’t concrete enough
- We’ve built this thing that magnetizes things to it
- Hyperreal is something that transcends the real...
- Business model: Is it a for-profit company?  A co-op?  A social enterprise?

* PAR                                                                   
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:

*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Although we’re all tired we’ve managed to pull things together very well today
- A game to get small grants, possibly winnable
*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?
- NA: I’m starting to feel like my role is more management, i.e., how this group is going to work
- JC: helped us manage our internal conversation so that we can at least be clear with 
*** 3. What did we learn or change?
- What do we want to accomplish
- How do we carry it out?
*** 4. What else should we change going forward?
- Let’s have a section in the template for ‘fuzzy thoughts’
- Let’s keep reFURbishing the exp2exp
- Let’s also keep some kind of inbox in mind
- Princeton has a role for a Digital Humanities programmer; is there someone who could help develop digital solutions.  (The Director is the DH director...)

* Tentative agenda for next week

- Week off
- Meet next Saturday
  - Fix Noorah’s Emacs?
- Set up meeting with Jeremy & Abby
- Abby will feed back on report
- Figure out Linode deployment

* Check-out                                                              
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Cat wrangling, playing with phantom to remove his aggression
- Phantom wants to wrestle!  Boys have a lot of testosterone... this is new to me!

** JC
- Need to do my other main job after a month’s worth of extra work on my ‘side-job’
- This weekend taking the weekend off; did shopping; now do laundry, vacuuming, &c. and not much else

** LV
- Cure hands w/o systemic antibiotics first if possible
- Preparing my meal, so far I’ve been busy & I have time cook today!
- Laundry is waiting
