:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       b2bd195e-be52-49fc-91cb-7a2d8231e417
:END:
#+TITLE: 14 January 2023 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2023-01-14 Sat>

* 14 January 2023  — Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** JC
- At the start of the meeting learned a little bit about how to use yasnippet:
  - The buffer needs to be in org mode
  - Then run =yas-expand= after the string "erg".
- Browsers are going well w/ pop-out in Discord to remove left pane
- Joe has a wall, and a standing desk, so is happy about that.

** LV
- Today was a lazy day
- But jump roping is back in the exercise cycle

* Meta points

** No recording today so we’ll take careful notes

** TODO Pre-PAR — Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- Last time we concluded by going through the schedule and a checklist of key components and steps
- Let’s do that again, but in slow motion with regard to the checklist, so that we can think about which parts

* Agenda (Part 1)                                                                
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

- JC: Liked LV’s point about participants being proto-facilitators.

We took notes into the previous meeting’s notes

* BREAK                                                                 
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

Yummy apple

* Agenda (Part 2)                                                                
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

Nice diagrams based on an hourglass shape and extensions thereof

* PAR                                                                   
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:

*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Just Leo and Joe this time
- Prior to this meeting we’d thought it would be a more technical meeting but instead we walked through the methods in more detail

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?
- Working through the methods carefully seems better than rehashing the technology at this point
- The checklist approach is what we wanted to switch to from the last pilot

*** 3. What did we learn or change?
- We have some existing technologies that are basically ready to deploy if needed
- We have a more detailed analysis of Phase II to Phase III transition

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?
- Get ready to do the first step
- Definitely show the final result!
- LV: I want to figure out an *export of Org Roam UI* so that we can host it on a website
  - Comment box is slightly harder to do
- If we want to get pictures later, facilitators can take pictures and send them via Discord
- "Technology will be the blocker for Phase III" (and that’s what we’re aiming to get the grant on)

* Tentative agenda for next week

See other notes for time table.

* Check-out                                                              
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

We’ll be seeing each other a lot next week!

** JC
- We may go to a party soon, with the bass guitar guy as a host

** LV
- 20 minutes left in current (1st) episode of a new series and need to eat
- Emacs frustration isn’t worth it!
