:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       f80078b7-45e4-436c-b470-e279fa87bcc3
:END:
#+TITLE: 29 October 2022 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2022-10-29 Sat>

* 29 October 2022  — Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** NA
- At home alone for a week!

** JC
- Coming from band practice with a gig tonight
- Recap of upcoming workshops:
  - *3rd* (10:30AM-2:30PM in person)
  - *4th* [deadline for EmacsConf] + mini-pilot at Anticipation
  - *12th* (2:30PM- fully remote)
- 12th is hopefully the "tech" workshop, with full remote participation from ERG.
  - *10th* is hard for Leo, but some folks already invited

** LV
- Practice with Murphy’s law today
- Drying self with fan at max level
- Decided not to swim & run simultaneously; your body doesn’t optimise the same way with triathlon

** AT
- Do need more time for planning the 12th
- Update on Theme workshop, 10:30-2:30, everyone in person, students naive to the process (who won’t have thought about problems in this way), Judith, Evelyn, Anne-Marie (documentary-making student)
  - Will share blurbs about the people
  - NA: Are you preparing any slides?
  - Maybe something similar to what Judith saw; or the thing from IMCL?
    - AT: Would be good to get everyone on the same page
  - Timetable? [JC: I can make this]
    - NA: this will prevent confusion
  - LV: There are a couple scenarios to quickly learn about CLA, maybe get the message across with a diagram; e.g., a lovely iceberg
  - What if we give them papers?

* Meta points

** TODO Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:

** TODO Pre-PAR — Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- How can we collect the data for the workshop?
- What’re the research questions?


* Agenda (Part 1) - EmacsConf revisited
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Talk outline
*** <5-10 minutes: (brief description/outline)

**** SUBH1: What’s going on with the Emacs Research Group?

# After meeting at EmacsConf 2020, and since then convening weekly as
# the Emacs Research Group, we gained a lot of experience working
# across disciplines.

Building on our long-running small-group experience, we developed a
strategy for engaging others in the kind of light creative work that
we value, because we want to share our patterns for building effective
joyful action.

**** SUBH2: Tell me more about the workshop.

Our new day-long workshop brings people together around a topic of
shared interest.  We use a scenario-development and exploration
process to help participants understand their common ground, and
discover new ways to work together.  In this talk, we will give an
overview of recent workshops we’ve run, on themes linked to public
space and future studies, and how we utilize Emacs for our research.

In our workshop design, Phase 1 is a descent to a shared Myth, which
comprises an understanding of common ground; Phase 2 is about moving
from that into effective action.

*** <20 minutes: (brief description/outline)
**** SUBH3: So, what do you expect the outcomes for workshop participants to be?

# Looking back at our recent pilots as a source of evidence, we’ll
# look at whether and how the methods we used helped people quickly
# identify core themes that they want to keep working on together.

While we don’t expect everyone to meet weekly like we did, we do
expect that some participants will leave energised.  Underlying the
workshop is the claim that the right combination of methods should
help people find topics of priority that they want to get traction on
it, for example, breaking down a topic like "public space" into doable
actions like cleaning up an abandoned lot.

# Does the evidence so far support this claim?

**** SUBH4: What does this have to do with Emacs?

- We can talk about our attempt to create a shared slipbox! (this isn’t an Apple conference :-))

Technology should help people be even more effective at identifying
and addressing challenging problems.  As a small example, note-taking
in real time with CRDT helps us practice ‘active listening’ in our
meetings and gives us a detailed record of what happened that we can
return to for further reflection and analysis.

We get excited about how more advanced data analysis and more
structured interaction patterns could aid in going back over our old
thoughts and getting more out of the time we spend together.  One
potential application would be forming bridges between the different
community groups we work with.

*** <40 minutes: (brief description/outline)
**** SUBH5: What’s coming up next?

We’ll bring these ideas together to introduce our plans for a day-long
workshop specifically for Emacs users and developers.  We want to work
together to imagine the future of Emacs.  In this setting,
participants will begin with considerable technical common ground, as
well as community with a long history of effective collaboration.
Nevertheless, Emacs presents both challenges (especially for new
users) and many interesting opportunities.  This talk constitutes an
invitation, and we hope to get your feedback on the kind of workshop
you’d be excited to attend, before we run it (in about a month!).

** Quick demo of Conceptconnector
- We’ve seen what we can do, but what would be useful?
- Salience, similar concepts, what is common between *nodes*?
  - Do we parse titles? Lines? Text?
  - Noise vs data; it may take a completely different

#+begin_quote
"I looked at the blue *cat*."

This should be similar to:

"I own a red *dog*."
#+end_quote

*** If we do it recursively across texts/nodes

** Next steps
- Leo can make something to capture data for Nov 12
- Everyone can access all the notes, might need to refresh
- Minimum need can see & sync the data
  - "Save text box input to txt file"
  - Should be accessible on phone, similar to note-taking app
  - We collect the data and analyse
- Backup plan: we use Org Roam + Etherpad
*** Design questions
- Do we want one group?  We could make a 2nd repo?
- Do we only have one person taking notes per group?
- How to merge the two groups (two constellations)
- We deal with phase III, no data processing live
- Could guide people step-by-step through activities?
- Is it for phase I or II?
- Does it feed into a spreadsheet, with a column of all the ideas under each phase?
- Who made the comment?  What was their role?
- X group, myth layer, etc.

* BREAK
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

* Agenda (Part 2)
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Feasibility: Pilot of theme workshop
- Logistical thing, managing a certain group of people in this amount of time
- Does it allow us to get engagement?
- As an outcome: can we formulate useful patterns that have actions attached?
- As follow-up, great to do informal interviews, was that crazy, was that useful?
*** If we want to gather feedback on the workshop...
- We need to have a proper PAR at the end
- What are the extra questions we need to ask?
- This will help us generate the distance to comment?
- It’s unreasonable to ask them to generate feedback as they go.
- "If there’s something that feels weird, keep it in mind and answer at the end".


** Tech workshop: What’s the role of collective action supported through tech?
- How does this sit with community tech in a sustainable way?
- How do we develop something that is longitudinal, that we’re contributing to?
- How is it *sustained*?
- How does this relate to reliance on the "Leos" of the world?

*** Address via WH questions:
- *How* do you enable such a system?
  - Use Free Software: one leo goes away, another will come
- *What* to use?
  - Probably best to do it with text now because it’s what we have, and relationships are easier to form?
- *Why* do it?
  - Current technologies & methods aren’t working for the problems that we want to solve.
*** Another point
- It’s also complex for us, without having run the workshop, to know how growable the tools will be; if it’s important to do it with diverse people that’s different from running it once and hoping for the best
- This suggests that the best thing we can achieve right away is to make sure that people are comfortable with the CLA method
  - E.g., tools can help prevent unlinked nodes
*** JC: is this a tech policy question?
- NA: This is a difficult problem especially with non-tech folks maintaining community tech, even in FS where there are developers, it’s hard to maintain the technologies
- AT: Book "Working in Public", data on who is doing the maintenance (2% of the community)
- NA: Social solution, getting the private sector to opt in on maintaining; e.g., via ‘social responsibility officers’ in tech companies who will recognise the value to the community; developers could volunteer their time


*** LV: On sustainability
- One responsibility I had at Etalab (tech company working for FR state on opening data & opening software)
- One important point was the growth of _OSPO_ offices; Google+Meta, plus others, will have these offices to pilot how much these companies want to have free software
- OSPO isn’t yet deeply embedded but it’s getting there; the EC has declared OSPOs as something companies should implement;
- Most of these companies will have a (strong) relationship to software
- All of these companies have deployed ‘Agile’ methods
- Agile is all methodologies, but you can have some tools that support it
- What if we could access this field of methodology, and say: You are used to "novel" methodology (like Agile); there could be an angle to say,
- ‘we are specialists of problem solving; you are software engineers; how about we add some tools to work together, improving the methods, creating the tools that are ever more complex (moreso than just code problems + workplace people problems); community is plural’
**** Quick demo of "Taiga" software
- Meta- approach: People are used to having some technologies for looking at problems
- With civil engineering you need a brick eventually, and you can ultimately depend on testing at that level
- With software engineering you get quicker feedback
- These folks may best understand what we’re bringing to the table
- We can take lessons from Scrum/Agile, what can we bring into our method?
- These are well-tested and have led to great success
***** Comments
- Integration into our phases
  - the diverse catalogue of off-the-shelf and bespoke software that helps to promote agility
  - Awareness of other thing vs novel creation via disorder and serendipity + a longitudinal evolving aspect
  - Are we talking about the optimal use of platforms, existing ones?
- NA: *Priority*, let’s get the tech working, *sustainability* of collection, dissemination, &c., can be later dealt with; sustainability is a social problem not a tech problem!  This has to be dealt with later w/ other stakeholders, not just us.
- LV: Reason notetaking is close to project tracking:
   - Org mode makes porosity between tasks and text items
   - You can see things in a nice board like Taiga
   - We’re not doing this (much) in our ERG workflow, but we’d like to make more of this come into
- LV: So, action happens at the note-taking level; we could direct people to other platforms for tracking actions
  - It’d be nice to have something that makes it easy to take notes & identify actions
  - Org mode can do this (sort of) but it’s not totally easy to solve
- If people want to have a separate file of ‘tasks’ they can do this

* PAR :review:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:


*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- ‘Keep it simple’
- The simple text box idea has been maturing over the week: is it myth, worldview, what is your name? - this could be all that we need
- Should link to a folder with ‘created this stage, this person used it, their notes, in which part of the workshop’
- Can go into a database & split however we want afterwards

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?
- JC: I really liked LV’s point about doing a proper PAR at the end of our workshop to collect distantiated data.  Maybe reserving 30′ at the end of the workshop might be best.  It might be a good way to demonstrate what constitutes our routine.
- We have enough PARs to do a substantial analysis (2 years!)

*** 3. What did we learn or change?
- LV: I’d failed to synchronise that we need something simple both for the workshop itself and the feedback afterwards
- JC: Patterns back in scope as an outcome!
  - Did we help them get unblocked?
  - How can we grow the ship that is the method? (with patterns)
  - We get benefit from exposure to the problem domain; they get some benefits from the methods

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?
- Trying to translate the methods we’ve been using, seeing how people can accommodate them w/ their own problems; e.g., to think about the *challenges* that have been raised within the workshop
- The ‘theme’ / ‘methods’ stuff complement each other; a key part of it is, have we been able to get people thinking about the problems in the community in a different way?
- We own the method at the start, but we should all own the theme at the end
  - We’ll come to people with a problem, they’ve been selected for that; everyone should leave with a clear idea of the problems (blockers) and solutions suggested at the end; so we need enough bridges to be able to communicate (once we have the problem in front of us)
- Phase III will be scaffolded by some new ideas, and patterns

* Tentative agenda for next week
- Thurday the 3rd pilot, good to check in either Tues or Weds (LV can attend)
- 4th of Nov deadline can be pushed to the 12th
- Debrief on the 5th

* Check-out
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Errands to finish.  I’m not used to 2K-square-ft of space; we need the cleaner.
  - AT: More fun than cleaning the bathroom!
     - NA: Nintendo called last Saturday!

** JC
- Getting ready for first double bass gig
- Bike travel?

** LV
- The week was busy b/c I’ve almost finished a complicated algos book
- ‘tech an english major how to code a binary search tree and they will never be thirsty’
- I’ll probably apply for a PhD programme at Princeton... while I’m now almost hireable
- so, all good!

** AT
- Off to rescue potatoes that need harvesting!
  - They’ve been in there since April...
  - JC: Garlic planting for tomorrow :-)
