:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       90e70b1a-6551-4db8-bd1b-a22b4587553a
:END:
#+TITLE: Research & Emacs 12 Dec
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2020-12-12 Saturday>

* Research & Emacs 12 Dec

** Intros/Checkins
Last week: getting as much ideas as possible
This week: thinking about what’s actionable

LV: Are we feeling energised?

JC: HCI & ethics, soup

NA: looking for other social scientists who might be interseted
- Maybe grants could come from meta-science
- Found Raoul Patcheko who does research logistics methods in soc sci
 - ... who is thinking of running a podcast.
 - Qualitative researcher, looking at Zettlekasten
 - maybe/potential addition, with a good following
 - Feeling fine, doing a lot of baking

DOT: Have been spending time with family, brother, dog
 - Since last time, moving forward with Emacs Workshop idea
 - Would like to do 2 of them, like an online class?
 - Or make it 1-on-1 and record it so others can learn
 - Could do both (e.g., 1-1 with live questions)
 - People who know basics & take them into Elisp
 - Has friend who’s been getting interested; asked if they can do 1-1- presentation 
 - Roughly following the Emacs Lisp intro book

RSP: Has been working on the project from EmacsConf
 - Talked with Joe about other related projects
 - Discussing concerns about how to balance various different activities
 - How to pace ourselves to stay together to get things accomplished?
 - Could see that this group could meet regularly and Emacs Conf is just biggest mtg
 - LV: we have a different rhythm, based on excitement
 - Now we can have an international group
 - LV: How to get UTC+13?

LV: My week went swimmingly
 - Had lots of meetings incl. with EmacsConf team
 - Chief decision was to talk with FSF about using BBB
  - (which we are now using)
 - This means we have a free software solution for having onngoing meetings
  - Still need landline solution (1 to 2 weeks?)
 - Started reading Douglas Adams — interesting stuff about HCI
  - Also stuff about writing your own text editor!

** First point about format of meeting
 - One hour was short
 - Looking for regular time(s)
  - Would this time be good for everyone for 5PM UTC?
  - Ideally not always on weekend, but there are some hard constraints
  - Can use async methods to stay in touch otherwise
  - If we have weekly meetings we could also make theme themed
   - E.g. so people can pick ones they want to make it to
   - One week
  - On the name: in/on/with? "Emacs Research Group" — is open enough
 - AUS people could coordinate their own meetings, relay notes
  - They can share BBB etc
 - Is this a meetup/workshop/RG? Let’s not overthink this.
** Tangential:
 - What are we trying to be, and do?
 - Grants?
  - Flexibility: small, big?
  - Emacs is flexible: grants for research, for education?
  - E.g., focusing more on pedagogy, reproducible
 - Maybe we will invalidate
 - Leo is interested in the HCCC paper
  - Working on complex thought & systems theory
  - To correlate atoms & links with something philosophical
  - Thinking about the bridges between different fields
  - Transdisciplinary is big in Digital Humanities
** Podcast and other media
 - Just had Emacs Conf meeting
 - We discussed revising a podcast
 - Limited to Emacs & Community
 - We could be invited to talk about resesarch on this podcast?
  - Podcast or book?
 - LV: had time to browse through the book
  - There’s quite a bit of overlap
  - Could discuss the benefits for Org Roam
  - Are methods advocated by Peeragogy useful for Org Roam dev?
  - Can there be a symbiotic relationship?
 - How to create policy to support transdisciplinary research?
  - LV: Philosophy of humor!
  - How to get different organs working together?
  - How is this supported by embracing free software
 - A wiki could be useful to set up the discussions so they aren’t conflicting!
 - To bring Jethro + Leo could be hard, UTC+8/9
  - Both able to formulate coherent thoughts
 - Resonance between Peeragogy + Org Roam could be a more regular activity
** Lobbying
- Right now we are too few to kickstart something
- Maybe we could do something with the Biden administration on this?
** Fields
- We don’t need to circumscribe to a field, but can embrace flexibility
** Finance?
 - OSPO: "Open Source Programming Office"
  - This is an odd thing in Europe
  - Companies/Gov’ts forming groups to understand how to get free software used
 - This is a superset of what we’re trying to do
 - But, Emacs is so transversal in terms of notes, writing, reproducibility
  - Having an OSPO for academies could be mostly concerned with Emacs!
  - 2 docs by EU (1) 2020-2023 guidelines (2) specifics on OSPO in companies from July
 - OSPO is a blueprint — it started in corporate world
 - todo group is biggest conglomerate (started by Google)
 - Strategically viable
 - Next step in Digital Humanities
  - potential good thing to focus our energies
** Mingling of pedagogy & activism
 - What can we do to help our colleagues?
 - There may be other more activist ways of working with this?
 - RSP: Brief experience report from Einstein Medical College
  - They might spend hours making a presentation
  - I’d show how using Org Beamer export they could do it quicker
  - They don’t even know such tools are available
 - NA: Similar one-on-one level
 - Still struggling with how to do it at an institutional level
 - *"Shock and awe"* strategy
  - People see plain text, reproducible research — this won’t be
    enough to convince people to switch but...
  - When you have this tactic "but I can teach you how I do this"
  - In this brief moment, people will be sufficiently interested to
    follow up
   - Need to have e.g. a buddy system
   - Need to have software
  - Speaking with Sacha, who extracted all mentions of research &
    academic from Emacs News
 - RSP: Important to act when “iron is hot” — also important to make
   sure there’s not too much barrier
  - Most of the time people will have to have Emacs installed / setup
  - Web interface might help, e.g., here’s an Emacs I can use in my
    web browser
  - Concern, it won’t work unless people can set it up & have it ready
    to use
 - David: after I do the basic w/ my friend, Noorah we could do one
  - Two would be a good experience
  - About Peeragogy, I was looking at the website...
   - I went to HS for one year and left to do private tutoring
   - Had benefit of older siblings, parents who were programmers
   - Got GED and became a tutor
 - Noorah: Is it OK to come in with a specific workflow?
  - E.g., to identify any inefficiency & overcome that?
  - LV: To pull wagons together — having office hours
   - If these sessions could be shared later on...
   - Having private tutoring sessions could fit with this
 - DOT: I’d start with a general outline, get something ahead of time
  - There are 100 Trillion things to do!
  - E.g., working with R, getting familiar
 - JC: Maybe doing this as a structure bug report?
 - NA: “Doom Emacs” idea would help
** “Emacs Process Improvement Specialist”
 - E.g., Joe could commit to watch the videos & make notes from a peeragogy standpoint
** Workshop Recap
 - DOT setting up 1-to-1 tutorials
** Org roam and how do we use it?
 - Where does it sit in all of this?
 - Org Roam is a good tool for researchers
 - Maybe we could focus on how to make Org Roam work for the project
 - We can have a symbiotic relationship
  - Feature requests on Org Roam, get more people involved...
 - Org Roam → Roam Research → Zettlekasten
 - Many researchers working on Roam Research and how useful it is
 - LV: not convinced of intellectual integrity
 - You find plenty of people popping up and saying it’s lifechanging
 - But the problem that I have with this is that the links between reviewers and RR are  a bit dubious
 - LV: was contacted by one such interviewer and is between 2 chairs
 - Is this a good opportunity to outreach?
 - How to assess the integrity of their research?
 - I regret their subscriber model.
 - It feels weird to have 2 pieces of software that rely on same principles
 - In one the ethics are a problem, in the other the aim is to combat that
 - How do we make Org Roam more popular? Finance-able?
 - Without interacting with RR
 - RSP: Mainly the name roam
 - NA: The biggest hurdle of researchers of researchers using RR is data protection
  - If people are working with sensitive data, going to be on a company’s server
  - This will not fly with IRB standards
  - OR makes a better alternative from that point alone
 - LV: We’re using Org Roam, not Roam Research
  - Whether or not we want it we are within this aura
  - Discussed many times the necessity of renaming
  - Having spoken with the main developer, we’re not on the same market
  - But we get more and more of their market share
 - Being clear what we find acceptable
 - Connor: doubts
 - But what about e.g. independent researchers Andy Mautuschak & Kings Col researcher
  - Their interest in Zettlekasten could come onto these meetings
  - Rob
  - If I probe and find people who have reserves
  - We could get people as operational helps with the software
  - Maybe we could bring them onboard with the ethics as well
 - CRS: I think each person should be considered on their own presentation
  - E.g., Andy has presented interest in the entire framework
  - (Not just an implementation.)
  - Andy has implemented his own version (web interface)
  - Some other people may be in a position to have financial ties which is a different question
  - We should engage with a lot of these people, but ask: if they aren’t interested in the methods but in the specific implementation
  - Myself, having used Roam for a while: I’m a long-time user of LaTeX, I didn’t realise that Org Mode should be thought of as a superset of LaTeX, I thought of it as a subset
  - So I had this misconception for a long time
  - Trying Org Roam made me realize the misconception!
  - I feel Org Roam as a feature of Org Mode is a lineage that provides the basis for the research tools
  - It’s excellent that we have this collection
  - It could be useful to change the name; backlinks in Org Mode is not necessarily a separate thing
  - Focusing more on the "Org" part is a good way to present on the ecosystem of research tools
  - This is what researchers need — and these are things that RR doesn’t plan to implement in the short term
  - The dependency we’re interested in is “Emacs because of Org Mode”
  - “The rise of Roam”
- RSP: And Org mode is also only a subset of Emacs!
 - LV: These are by design
 - How to get the integrations?
 - Org Roam is just Zettlekasten
 - Does this need to have a name?
- DOT: Quick question:
 - Idea of OR is: pre-indexing version controlled set of files?
 - Note taking?
 - Just making sure that there are backlinks that are reliable.
 - It sounds like people are using OM for reproducible research
 - Zettlekasten: non-hierarchical organization of notes
 - If you’re friendly with them it sounds fine.
 - Companies can be friendly until they’re not!
** Office Hours
** Other leads
 - https://www.kpsrl.org/knowledge-management-fund
 - http://opendreamkit.org/
 - https://github.com/OpenDreamKit/OpenDreamKit.github.io/blob/master/_posts/2015-05-15-OpenDreamKit-accepted.md
** Links from chat
- https://peeragogy.org/
- https://plain-text.co/index.html
- https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2723872.2723881

** PAR
*** 1. Intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
**** Solidify our group
**** Have more time talk
**** Prune some of good ideas
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
**** Discussed, came with notes from last week
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
**** Having a better way to have a garden of notes
**** LV: Thinking I was speaking a lot
**** JC: Leo had a bit of crackle
**** LV: wants to try to give voice
**** Telephone interface perspective — others may want to join by phone
**** *Jitsi* could be an opportunity
**** BBB has some extra features? FSF controls.
**** You need to be a sponsor of FSF to use their Jitsi, but not sure if they support phone calls
**** David: thanks for being patient w/ me as non-researcher answering my questions about Org Roam!
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
**** "Emacs Research Group"
**** "How to support transdisciplinary research?"
**** 1-to-1 tutorials as way to go forward
**** Learning about Org Roam
**** AUS-ERG to coord w/ as we go forward
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
**** Could switch moderator role from time to time?
**** Can also have Leo be ongoing moderator if he’s up for that!
**** David’s tutorial material will be ready to look at
**** NA: Will want some help to set up + use the tech
**** Many can look into the Logseq/OR/Firn ecosystem
**** Meeting w/ Jethro can be challenging (but worth it)
**** Leo, please follow up w/ JC about paper!
**** Meta-review of PARs later?
**** DOT+LV, looking at Peeragogy book
**** Allow up to 2 hours to discuss? — But we will put all the key things in 1st hour
**** Use David’s 1-to-1 as a template
**** Schedule further 1-to-1s for January?
**** *Meeting 19th* — followed by break
