:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       c2133273-aba2-4601-8e19-22602734eca4
:END:
#+TITLE: 12 November 2022 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2022-11-12 Sat>

* 12 November 2022  — Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** NA
- It’s 7AM local, but I’m personally on Austin time.

** JC
- Still a bit sleepy.  Got lots of sun.

** LV
- It’s nippy, but sunny.  It’s nice to have a sunny autumn day.
- I’m sleepy because I’m waking up early now.
  - NA: Is this permanent?
    - LV: Mostly yes, but I’ll be a little quieter.

* Meta points

** TODO Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:

*** JC: Would be happy to highlight the next steps for our current plan of starting a collective slip-box

** TODO Pre-PAR — Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
*** Explore the implementation of collective slipbox
*** Pick up where we left off with the plan

* Agenda (Part 1)
- Discussion of the pre-workshop outline

* BREAK                                                                 

* Agenda (Part 2)
- Walk through of the details of the workshop plan up to Phase 2 delivery

* PAR  :review:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:

*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Good discussion of Noorah’s outline from last week
- Request for clarity around terminology gives us more to think about w/ clarity for next time
- Massive-time zone difference!

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?
- Joe feels reassured that we can use the workshop outline in Anticipation?
- NA: I feel well-rested from 8:30PM sleep; the meeting feels helpful b/c we work through an outline!

*** 3. What did we learn or change?
- JC: Was in a pretty grumpy mood at the start (Emacs annoyance & sleep deprivation!)

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?
- Joe to communicate with Abby about the next meeting on Next Monday, verifying the timings
- Anticipate quiet-mode for Leo.
- Keep structure for assurance that we are carefully building towards an objective; it’s better for the long-term to have the notes that scaffold (for reusing & revisiting, condensing, etc.)
- If we believe the notes that we’ve taken on that day can be easily be picked up next time.
- Joe: upload stuff to the exp2exp repo... plan for reworking it more hierarchically later.

* Tentative agenda for next week

* Check-out                                                              
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Going to grab a tasty bite (probably a bagel)
  - LV: A US delicacy :-)

** JC
- My big agenda is to get a good night of sleep, starting soon :-)
  - LV: Martial the variables & parameters that you can; prioritise e.g. toothbrush & pants for US.
- Will check in on Monday sayth that at least I’ve packed

** LV
- Finishing episode of "The Crown" Season 5, and will be in bed very early (already feeling sleepy here at 6PM today)
