<html><head><meta charset="UTF-8" /><meta content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" name="viewport" /><script type="text/x-mathjax-config">MathJax.Hub.Config({
    tex2jax: {
      inlineMath: [ ['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)'] ],
      processEscapes: true
    }
  });</script><script src="https://polyfill.io/v3/polyfill.min.js?features=es6"></script><script async="async" src="https://hypothes.is/embed.js"></script><script async="async" src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script><link href="https://exp2exp.github.io/static/css/firn_base.css" rel="stylesheet" /><link href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" rel="preconnect" /><link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Ubuntu+Condensed&amp;family=Ubuntu+Mono&amp;family=Ubuntu:wght@300;400&amp;display=swap" rel="stylesheet" /><script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/anchor-js/anchor.min.js"></script></head><body><main><article class="content"><h1>19 June 2021 — Emacs Research Group</h1><i>2021-06-19 Sat — Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier</i><div><div><section></section><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="19-june-2021-—-emacs-research-group"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>19 June 2021 — Emacs Research Group</span></span></h1></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="check-ins"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Check-ins</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#20m">20m</a></span></span></h1><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="leo"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Leo</span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Has been rushing and coming into frustrating, single-point-of-failures issues with BBB</span></p></li><li><p><span>The broader checkin: people expect you to have nice things to report not tech frustrations!  I returned 2h30 ago.  Came a bit early for this almost-ad-hoc checkout session.  Happy to be back and happy to have had some time off during the holiday, where I’ve let my mind wander across the rocks and sand; I feel rested despite the immediate frustrations</span></p></li><li><p><span>Ready to make some changes in the way I work, and tomorrow I will go back swimming!  ERG has just pushed this off one more day (for seven-months-and-a-day total)</span></p></li><li><p><span>There’s also a thunderstorm outside!</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="joe"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Joe</span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Feeling well (had a nice cup of matcha tea)</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="ray"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Ray</span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Paper’s due 24th of June, you’re all welcome to join; let’s organise meetings for the week, I’m willing to put time in now; in 2 weeks they’ll put in some time</span></p></li><li><p><span>Over the next month or so, this paper, other research interests; may want to leave ERG things on the shelf, do want to plan things for the fall</span></p></li><li><p><span>E.g., working with hypernotebooks, a code tracer, and some other things — will want input and connections w/ others as coding and integration develops</span></p></li><li><p><span>Partly in connection with the paper, the usefulness of interaction with Peeragogy; we talked a lot about Org Roam & Zettlekasten stuff, so practicalities of e.g. having a notebook that is separate from the draft of what you’re working on.  Would love to set up a “collaborative notebook/ZK for peeragogy and elsewhere” — maybe discuss this in 2nd phase of the meeting</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="noorah"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Noorah</span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Did take a look at the Google Docs paper, not sure how much I contributed — did I earn my name on it?</span></p></li><li><p><span>I have been busy working on my dissertation and packing for travel</span></p></li><li><p><span>Haven’t thought through Emacs for fall but: getting up to date with packages on Emacs would be something I want to do, have still been using things from the last 6 months, getting a refresher on what’s going on out there</span></p></li><li><p><span>Still want to work on a collaborative slip-box as a Venn intersection between different slip boxes!  Would be nice to think through the implications.</span></p></li><li><p><span>The way we’re doing things with CRDT is really cool, but depends on a note-taker at the meetings; but even working individually and how we can learn through</span></p></li></ul></section></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="things-to-keep-in-mind"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Things to keep in mind</span></span></h1><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="goal-for-today-—-extended-checkout-of-season-1"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Goal for today — extended checkout of Season 1</span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Thinking about projects</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="record-the-sodding-session-(not-today,-because-we’re-on-discord)"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Record the sodding session (not today, because we’re on Discord)</span></span></h2></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="agenda"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Agenda</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#80m">80m</a></span></span></h1><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="technical-aspect-of-working-together"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Technical aspect of working together</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#30m">30m</a></span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Happy we called this the ending of Season 0</span></p></li><li><p><span>CLA is a testament to the energy that’s gone into our collaboration</span></p></li><li><p><span>But we might have been able to do more if we had the tools of collaboration that we’ve discussed</span></p><ul><li><p><span>If I was to make a list:</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></section><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="collaborative-slip-boxes-for-a-collection-of-notes"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Collaborative slip boxes for a collection of notes</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>Ability to publish notes and work on those notes together</span></p></li><li><p><span>Submodule 1: Issues of authorship, conflict resolution, how to sync the database</span></p></li><li><p><span>Submodule 2: Ability to do these things “live” — we need to come up with a technical solution to traverse nodes together, rather than just traversing single nodes together (sharing an entire slipbox via CRDT)</span></p></li></ul></section><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="biggest-component-of-what-i-plan-to-be-doing-this-summer"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Biggest component of what I plan to be doing this summer</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>It’s easy to make it dumb, harder to make it intelligent...</span></p></li><li><p><span>RSP: It would be nice to have, even async would be interesting+valuable</span></p></li><li><p><span>On 1: we have to work on how syncing works.  We have discussed many solutions (e.g., tracking commits via Git)</span></p><ul><li><p><span>“These lines were written by JC, NA, etc.”</span></p></li><li><p><span>ORv2 is different from ORv1, we only have </span><code>id</code><span> links</span></p></li><li><p><span>This opens interesting themes for collaboration</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>One understanding, I.e., if you’re putting all your notes into one slip box...</span></p><ul><li><p><span>You could say: “I only want to share notes that are tagged erg.”</span></p></li><li><p><span>That would be interesting b/c it would allow you to have some shared things</span></p></li><li><p><span>“One thing with contents from many people.”</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>How we conceive collaboration: is it sharing individual notes, or the the elaboration of notes together?</span></p></li><li><p><span>NA: Two situations, one doable, one tricky</span></p><ul><li><p><span>If we’re working asynchronously, we solve it with Git commits</span></p></li><li><p><span>But if we’re doing something at the same time, this is when it gets tricky.</span></p></li><li><p><span>Maybe my contribution is just me thinking out loud and then Joe is writing it down — if Joe commits it looks like it’s his work!</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>JC: underlining, colour?</span></p></li><li><p><span>RSP: who actually contributed the research that’s being presented there!</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="type-1"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Type 1</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>Sharing notes out of individual ZKs and aggregating them</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="type-2"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Type 2</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>People all working on a single node inside the file</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="so"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>SO...</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>we need a way to articulate these two</span></p></li><li><p><span>If there’s something in Type 1, can we convert it to Type 2?</span></p></li><li><p><span>Is this something you should desire?  Should this be something that’s locked?</span></p></li><li><p><span>If you want to edit one of these things, do you create a link and work there?</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="joe’s-view"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Joe’s view</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>Type 1 slows everything down; Type 2 is probably what we should focus on</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="ray’s-view:"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Ray’s view:</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>A third ring is to bring back some specific PlanetMath things</span></p></li><li><p><span>E.g., Peeragogy started as a spin off</span></p></li><li><p><span>Some of these things are successors to Planetary</span></p></li><li><p><span>Discussions with Aaron about PlanetMath back in scope</span></p></li><li><p><span>We’ve been talking about everyone having their own ZKs, but what about  projects?  If I have a project, this is where I keep the notes for this!</span></p><ul><li><p><span>I might populate it with notes I have sitting around, I might have a way to sync, who knows; but when we work on this project we will keep our notes there.</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>STANDARD PRACTICE: We usually have a shared draft and everything gets overburdened and it isn’t meant for that.</span></p><ul><li><p><span>If you think what ZK is supposed to bring into the situation, you’re creating your own notes — as you’re perusing sources, you write, and then things can be reused as needed</span></p></li><li><p><span>If we start thinking of a collective slipbox in a collaborative fashion, then we lose a link between your project activities and the individual cathedrals</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="leo’s-view"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Leo’s view</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>I want something for us to work with... if we forget Type 1 and focus on Type 2, if we’re all working with our own contents...</span></p></li><li><p><span>If we’re only working with Type 1 stuff, then there’s no co-creation</span></p></li><li><p><span>No sense of bringing things that you have from elsewhere into the room</span></p></li><li><p><span>If there’s a metal detector and you put all your baggage on the side</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="joe’s-response"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Joe’s response</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>It’s all a matter of perspective; at the end of the day, we’re going to make everything work together</span></p></li><li><p><span>We’d even have changes for a single user, e.g., everything tagged ERG</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="noorah’s-response"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Noorah’s response</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>The other side of the argument is that it limits transdisciplinarity: I want to bring something in from a different discipline, if I’m stuck in the project slipbox, I have to import things.</span></p></li><li><p><span>RSP: You’re free to bring in the other ones and link it, e.g., I won’t bring in every note on bio</span></p></li><li><p><span>NA: for me the project-minded thing is the INTERSECTION I’m talking about, the intersection that we all work in — that’s the project</span></p></li><li><p><span>LV: It’s interesting that you mentioned interface — or link — “you could link back to those notes outside of the project — but you’re the one who decides whether you make the links.</span></p><ul><li><p><span>It’s funny you mentioned you can link to or from it — if you can do that you’re already inside it.  It follows a model of colonisation, how to colonise different folders.</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>RSP: My practical stance: I agree with all of these things; but even if it has all of these problems, what’s the improvements over one single google doc.  An incremental improvement over what we have now.</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="some-synthesis"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Some synthesis</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>If I have 2 months to bring this in to the world, I can make technological high-art — right now I’m more enthusiastic about the high-art</span></p></li><li><p><span>JC: Also, keep the ‘incremental’, ‘holistic’, ‘developer’, ‘user’ modes of thinking in mind as we think about DESIGN</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-4"><h4 class="firn-headline firn-headline-4" id="summing-up"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Summing up</span></span></h4><section><ul><li><p><span>LV: We do have a “collaborative slip box” at the psychic level!</span></p></li><li><p><span>All told I will be working on this</span></p><ul><li><p><span>I’ll be thinking in July</span></p></li><li><p><span>I’d like to do a small presentation; does this cover the feature set half way through — it could also be something I record and submit to you to watch</span></p><ul><li><p><span>NA: I will be more available because of the time zone</span></p></li><li><p><span>RSP: Of course!  Similar to the “working vacation”</span></p></li><li><p><span>LV: though I do want us to worry about this...?</span></p><ul><li><p><span>We did also want to get some head space!</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Some might be done with half-step measures, and want to reach for Season 1 the beginning of tools</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>I didn’t get to talk about a place to keep the todos for a project!</span></p></li><li><p><span>None of it will be too complicated, but the Type1/Type2 stuff will be complicated</span></p></li><li><p><span>Some things would be easiers than others (e.g., interface with CRDT??)</span></p></li><li><p><span>But project related TODOs seem complicated, and there’s a lot of stuff to think about</span></p></li><li><p><span>I’d like to have milestones in the calendar about this — but I’d also like to come back to financing Org Roam, and a milestone based thing would likely work!</span></p></li><li><p><span>It will be a busy month of July</span></p></li><li><p><span>Moving to: https://meet.jit.si/peeragogy</span></p></li></ul></section></div></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="check-in-with-charlotte"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Check-in with Charlotte</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#10m">10m</a></span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Hive editing is in session</span></p></li><li><p><span>Hi from Joe...</span></p></li><li><p><span>Hi from Leo!</span></p></li><li><p><span>Hi it's me Noorah!!</span></p><ul><li><p><span>BUT we don’t have a link for you to get on this doc for hive editing!</span></p></li><li><p><span>Maybe in 6 months we’ll have an obvious working solution</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></section><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="charlotte"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Charlotte</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>Let’s drill through the steel barrier!</span></p></li><li><p><span>The attraction of hive editing is great</span></p></li><li><p><span>It will override</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="with-peeragogy"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>With Peeragogy</span></span></h3></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="peeragogy-erg-mash-up-paper-in-draft"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Peeragogy ERG mash up paper in draft</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#45m">45m</a></span></span></h2></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="plan-next-step-move-for-plop"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Plan next step move for PLoP</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#10m">10m</a></span></span></h2><section><ul><li><p><span>Ray: I’m available next week; also there will be the big shepherding thing in 2 weeks after the deadline</span></p></li><li><p><span>Leo: I’ve scheduled 2 hour review on Monday, Tuesday onwards is better</span></p></li><li><p><span>Noorah: next week is difficult but I’ll assign myself the discussion section and write notes to see if something makes sense there</span></p></li><li><p><span>Deadline for 24th</span></p><ul><li><p><span>We don’t have a specific todo list yet!</span></p></li><li><p><span>In the Google doc there were some awkward phrasings and typos, follow Charlotte’s notes to fix</span></p></li><li><p><span>CP: I don’t need authorship, but can contribute some text about the need for an agent</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Monday: Joe has another paper due</span></p><ul><li><p><span>Don’t use the coffee chat for this, b/c we have VAMIPIRISED the coffee chat to work on this</span></p></li><li><p><span>Make a clear split, e.g., 30 minutes before or after?</span></p></li><li><p><span>Ray and Joe meet 6PM UK time</span></p></li><li><p><span>Preview podcast meeting on Monday</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Tuesday:</span></p><ul><li><p><span>5:30PM UK meet with Leo on Discord</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Wednesday:</span></p><ul><li><p><span>7:30PM UK meet with everyone on BBB (Jitsi as fallback)</span></p></li><li><p><span>TIME: 11:45 East Coast = podcast</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-2"><h2 class="firn-headline firn-headline-2" id="extra"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Extra</span></span></h2><section><p><span>We agreed to extend today’s meeting today to have a proper check-out for the check-out session.</span></p></section></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="par"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>PAR</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#15m">15m</a></span></span></h1><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="1-review-the-intention:-what-did-we-expect-to-learn-or-make-together?"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>1. Review the intention: what did we expect to learn or make together?</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>ERG Peeragogy mashup call to discuss paper for PLoP</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="2-establish-what-is-happening:-what-and-how-are-we-learning?"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>On Jitsi with Charlotte and Vitor as well as the ERG regulars</span></p></li><li><p><span>ERG people met for 1 hour on Discord previously, after some last-minute hiccups</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="3-what-are-some-different-perspectives-on-what’s-happening?"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>CP: I’m happy you’re doing this for PLoP and keeping that relationship alive</span></p><ul><li><p><span>Newbie perspective!</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Ray: Also, we have the peeragogy and ERG relationship that is ongoing and will hopefully continue</span></p></li><li><p><span>Joe: more practical for us, and more practical for other people via the newbie perspective on the paper</span></p></li><li><p><span>This is our last session for a while, so let’s add 5 minutes to the end</span></p></li><li><p><span>It’s great to have someone like Leo who is aware of the timing generously helping us meet our time frame!</span></p></li><li><p><span>This is an example of an agent! — Otherwise you won’t have people absorb the wisdom</span></p></li><li><p><span>CP: We do a par at the end, but what about doing it before?</span></p><ul><li><p><span>Ray: that came up with Joe, but at the end it should be what you were saying</span></p></li><li><p><span>The PAR should help with planning!</span></p></li><li><p><span>We could do a PAR for Season 1 — maybe this would the “pilot” of Season 1!</span></p></li></ul></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="4-what-did-we-learn-or-change?"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>4. What did we learn or change?</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>Charlotte suggested more practical perspectives, making the bridge to the group you’re trying to help</span></p></li><li><p><span>Diversity; Noorah was talking about the Utility of CLA when they have multiple meetings, going back to the meetings — going — different vocabularies can make lack of cohesion or even conflict — transdisciplinarity came up</span></p></li><li><p><span>LV: this feels related to methodology, like, how to “lower the bridge to get people inside” — defining the taxonomy, explaiing it, making people get the click for the vocabulary is essential.</span></p></li><li><p><span>Reminds me of Andy Matuschak, which is a taxonomy of notes: fleeting notes, things you take off the top of your mind, ever-green notes, things you use as a concept is other notes — this kind of approach to sharing and cementing knowledge...</span></p></li><li><p><span>I was talking about clicks with regard to programming... but for peer learning this also can create clicks!  “Evergreen” notes</span></p><ul><li><p><span>CP: Oh, the ah-ha moment!</span></p></li><li><p><span>How do you lead people through a bunch of aha moments...</span></p></li><li><p><span>Like when slaloming through doors on skis, to get through A B C quickly... now in 4D</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>The flow-zone where you know your tools well enough to implement them without thinking.  There are 1 mil things per stroke... but putting them together</span></p></li><li><p><span>Maybe this is also about </span><em><span>encoding patterns</span></em><span> — your brain is fitted to see patterns in the world and put concepts behind them.  When you regress from this point and assimilate it... ‘groking’... you’re after the click!</span></p></li></ul></section></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-3"><h3 class="firn-headline firn-headline-3" id="5-what-else-should-we-change-going-forward?"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>5. What else should we change going forward?</span></span></h3><section><ul><li><p><span>How can we use this with a rowing club, or a group of people in Brazil... 400 people at Brookes applying for grants!</span></p></li><li><p><span>Be more pro-active so we don’t get behind deadlines!  How can we gather up what we’ve done but not being behind an 8-ball where we are rushing to do things w/o developing them...</span></p><ul><li><p><span>This is methodological and technological problem — I use the technology myself, this is another reason to get behind the steel wall</span></p></li><li><p><span>A lot of this is about attitude and planning; giving yourself enough extra room.</span></p></li><li><p><span>LV: the problem is that you’ve been pro-active, but we have not been proactive — linking the desire to organise with the ability to organise.  When we go back to the PILOT.</span></p></li></ul></li><li><p><span>Network is probably an advantage here</span></p></li></ul></section></div></div><div class="firn-headline-section firn-headline-section-1"><h1 class="firn-headline firn-headline-1" id="check-out"><span class="firn-headline-text"><span>Check-out</span></span><span class="firn-org-tags"><span><a class="firn-org-tag" href="/tags#5m">5m</a></span></span></h1><section><ul><li><p><span>LV: happy about this session, on break, happy we met 8 days ago and convened — also very happy with the breezy fan that Joe suggested!  I collected some nice things on the beach.</span></p></li><li><p><span>JC: Wanted to repromote his cloud-water-soda (?)</span></p></li><li><p><span>CP:</span></p></li><li><p><span>NA:</span></p></li><li><p><span>RSP:</span></p></li><li><p><span>VB:</span></p></li></ul></section></div></div></div><hr /><div class="back"><p>Back to blog: <a href="https://exp2exp.github.io/erg">Exp2Exp: ERG notes</a></p></div></article></main></body><script>anchors.options = {
                               visible: 'always',
                               placement: 'left',
                               icon: '§'
                               };
            anchors.add('h2');
            anchors.add('h3');
            anchors.add('h4');
            anchors.add('h5');</script></html>