#+TITLE: CLA 16 October 2021
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Raymond Puzio, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI TO
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-10-16 Saturday>
#+roam_tag: HI
#+CATEGORY: ERG

* Introduction: Tools for Thought Revisited

This is a Causal Layered Analysis of the Emacs Research Group’s
activities.  Readers who aren’t familiar with /Causal Layered Analysis/
can catch up on that in the works of Sohail Inayatullah.  One of the
things we’re working on is a proper methodological introduction to how
we use this tool along with other methods.

- Input to Pattern Languages of Programs paper?
- We have a novel method that is at least somewhat inspired by ‘patterns’

* Cross references:

# ①
#
# erg-2020-12-02.org 1
# erg-2020-12-12.org 2
# erg-2020-12-19.org 3
# erg-2021-01-02.org 4
# erg-2021-01-09.org 5
# erg-2021-01-16.org 6
#
# ②
#
# erg-2021-01-23.org 7
# erg-2021-01-30.org 8
# erg-2021-02-06.org 9
# erg-2021-02-13.org 10
# erg-2021-02-20.org 11
# erg-2021-02-27.org 12
#
# ③
#
# erg-2021-03-06.org 13
# erg-2021-03-13.org 14
# erg-2021-03-27.org 15
# erg-2021-04-03.org 16
# erg-2021-04-10.org 17
# erg-2021-04-17.org 18
#
# ④
#
# erg-2021-04-24.org 19
# erg-2021-05-01.org 20
# erg-2021-05-08.org 21
# erg-2021-05-15.org 22
# erg-2021-05-22.org 23
# erg-2021-05-29.org 24
#
# ⑤
#
# erg-2021-06-19.org 25
# erg-2021-08-28.org 26
# erg-2021-09-11.org 27
# erg-2021-09-18.org 28
# erg-2021-09-25.org 29
# erg-2021-10-02.org 30
# erg-2021-10-09.org 31

This CLA refines the previous drafts:
- [[file:cla-16-january-2021.org][CLA 16 January 2021]], which covered Episodes 1-6,
- [[file:cla-20-february-2021.org][CLA 20 February 2021]] which covered Episodes 7-12, and
- [[file:cla-12-april-2021.org][CLA 12 April 2021]], which covered Episodes 13-18.
- [[file:cla-29-may-2021.org][CLA 29 May 2021]], which covered Episodes 19-24.
This one includes data from Episodes 25-31.

* Objective for this session

- ‘What is our vision for change and how is progress measurable?’
  - /Can we get concrete about that with some sign-ups relative to the TODOs here?/

** Litany: Understanding data, headlines, empirical world (short term change) :data:

#+begin_quote
We’ve made progress since we started with the raw themes of *Research
on/in/with Emacs* back in November 2020.  We’ve met almost every week
since then, and interviewed some interesting and varied guests.  We
have a clearer idea of what what we want to talk about at the next
EmacsConf, and how we can be of service to researchers and Emacs
users.  We have been using a workflow that helps us carefully review
progress, diagnose issues, and manage our energy.  We’re understanding
how research is done by doing it, and keeping careful track of the
process.
- If a session doesn’t go as well as hoped, we think about why (esp. Leo as chair). You know what the bomb is... so you can at least hope to defuse it later.
- We try to adapt gracefully to circumstances as they evolve, without being reactive because we know we will be back again next week and the week after, etc.
#+end_quote
*** BACK Maintain plans for the next six months                  :breakdown:
- We are doing research
- Some more directly related to Emacs
- Some with guests
- Some ‘user’ and “market” research
- Backlink to: [[peeragogy:Roadmap]]
*** BACK Keep doing PARs and CLAs                                :breakdown:
- This is our thing about method
- Maybe we should be expanding this to patterns...?
- This could be about presenting ‘futures’ in Patterns
 - NB: in Typescript work, there was a nice description of patterns
 - They talked about how we shouldn’t blindly internalise them
*** BACK Mesh with other ongoing activities elsewhere            :breakdown:
- Stakeholders are much bigger group
- Diversity of guests
- Diversity of outreach (maybe some kids in London haven’t heard about programmers...)
- Mike wants to develop virtual assistant stack
  - Do users have to write Org Mode?
  - How can we offload some work to less-expert employees?
  - What’s the relationship to time, expertise, serendipity?
  - What’s relationship to ongoing Hyperreal activities?
  - To discuss more next week...
**** BACK Come up with a categorical treatment of todo-categories
*** Data
**** Supporting data from CLA 1                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org::*Everyone shared a brief intro and ideas so we got to know each other][Everyone shared a brief intro and ideas so we got to know each other]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-02.org::*Plan whitepaper — Still narrowing to a decent output][Plan whitepaper — Still narrowing to a decent output]] :ep3:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*LV: Planning to go back over notes & improve current ZK to share][LV: Planning to go back over notes & improve current ZK to share]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Joe to pass info about Firn tags to Leo][Joe to pass info about Firn tags to Leo]] :ep6:
**** Supporting data from CLA 2                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-23.org::*crdt was almost a resounding success][crdt was almost a resounding success]] :ep7:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-23.org::*Moving things from TODO to DONE would be nice][Moving things from TODO to DONE would be nice]] :ep7:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Joe to research Bookdown + Hypothes.is + Rstudio][Joe to research Bookdown + Hypothes.is + Rstudio]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Circulate early draft of HCI paper, Joe to read comedy and philosophy paper][Circulate early draft of HCI paper, Joe to read comedy and philosophy paper]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-06.org::*Leo to liaise UX, dev stuff][Leo to liaise UX, dev stuff]] :ep9:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-13.org::*We’ve brainstormed a couple of options for /getting out there/: White-papers, Grants, Journal papers (very concrete)][We’ve brainstormed a couple of options for /getting out there/: White-papers, Grants, Journal papers (very concrete)]] :ep10:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-27.org::*Mark has 2 young children so this constrains his time, as well as new job; can’t promise to be frequent attendee][Mark has 2 young children so this constrains his time, as well as new job; can’t promise to be frequent attendee]] :ep12:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-27.org::*JC: It was good enough, especially since Mark might not be able to join us next week][JC: It was good enough, especially since Mark might not be able to join us next week]] :ep12:
**** Supporting data from CLA 3                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*Federating the groups around Emacs, or creating a global Emacs research, is probably what we should be striving towards][Federating the groups around Emacs, or creating a global Emacs research, is probably what we should be striving towards]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*RSP: Both Noorah and I have been bringing in experiences of how this relates to research with other collaborators (incl. their use of other platforms)][RSP: Both Noorah and I have been bringing in experiences of how this relates to research with other collaborators (incl. their use of other platforms)]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*Leo can demo commands for splitting tasks, GTD style!][Leo can demo commands for splitting tasks, GTD style!]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*Maybe useful to look at Lisa’s interview to think about structured data gathering method][Maybe useful to look at Lisa’s interview to think about structured data gathering method]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*Leo’s had more than 5 hours of Org and Emacs activities and is pretty saturated][Leo’s had more than 5 hours of Org and Emacs activities and is pretty saturated]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*User stories will be interesting to see (‘Black and White’)][User stories will be interesting to see (‘Black and White’)]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Weak organisations will have difficulties working together][Weak organisations will have difficulties working together]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-17.org::*AM: My major intention was to meet you guys and learn something, wanting to reinforce existing knowledge of emacs and develop it further][AM: My major intention was to meet you guys and learn something, wanting to reinforce existing knowledge of emacs and develop it further]] :ep18:
**** Supporting data from CLA 4                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-24.org::*We heard some about the energy and time costs of Leo’s Typescript learning sprint][We heard some about the energy and time costs of Leo’s Typescript learning sprint]] :ep19:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-24.org::*(Leo has still participated, though wishes he’d be able to muster more forces.)][(Leo has still participated, though wishes he’d be able to muster more forces.)]] :ep19:
- TBA
**** Supporting data from CLA 5                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*CP: I’m happy you’re doing this for PLoP and keeping that relationship alive (Newbie perspective!)][CP: I’m happy you’re doing this for PLoP and keeping that relationship alive (Newbie perspective!)]] :ep25:
- Reminds me of long-polling sessions via HTTP
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*We could do a PAR for Season 1 — maybe this would the “pilot” of Season 1!][We could do a PAR for Season 0 — maybe this would the “pilot” of Season 1!]] :ep25:
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*Be more pro-active so we don’t get behind deadlines! How can we gather up what we’ve done but not being behind an 8-ball where we are rushing to do things w/o developing them...][Be more pro-active so we don’t get behind deadlines! How can we gather up what we’ve done but not being behind an 8-ball where we are rushing to do things w/o developing them...]] :ep25:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*JC is a little concerned that there’s been back-and-forth LV/JC and LV/RC, but very little LV/NA or other permutations][JC is a little concerned that there’s been back-and-forth LV/JC and LV/RC, but very little LV/NA or other permutations]] :ep27:
- Added halfway pause
- Non-verbal cues being followed
- Before we got the Tuesday Thursday thing up and running
- NA: Making me think about my behaviour in meetings
- JC: Noorah’s style reminds me of Cameron in some ways (listening til s/he has something to say)
- LV: Deterritorialising roles wrt to involvement with project; we could think about this with meeting participants (JC found Kaiju Communicator in different roles)
- People may be /long-range listening/, Leo as chair may more /EPIDERMIC/ and in the heat of the discussion but w/ different rhythms: I need to keep a level of coherency across sessions. My influence stops at the CLA b/c Joe has been taking care of this; I’m already taking care of a lot of inner workings
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*NA: It can be overwhelming when a lot of different things are going on (during the meeting)][NA: It can be overwhelming when a lot of different things are going on (during the meeting)]] :ep27:
- Links with the above, b/c of absorbing so much
- Might not yet have something to say, which could explain why she wanted less topics in the meeting
- How can we optimise meetings based on styles?
- LV: We’re sort of optimising relative to energy.  Sometimes having high-density, or two topics (*dense* and *light*).  We’ve been aware of modularity.  We’ve interpersonalised, and thought about our familiarity.
- Maybe these fall to people based on inclinations, but they are also jobs-to-be-done
- (Leo is also being long-range.)
- It’s a taxing job to both make the conversation flow but also to keep track of how the conversation is going!  People should be taking on the role knowing that there’s a lot going on.  I have a similar position at EmacsConf; I’m managing the agenda, calendar, notes, and need to also do low-level flow, and long-range flow, and delivery of the conference!
- I’d want the next chair to know about all these other things.
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*RP: Problems come up when we are reactive with, e.g., workshops that we have to run but haven’t been planned well][RP: Problems come up when we are reactive with, e.g., workshops that we have to run but haven’t been planned well]] :ep27:
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*Circumstances evolved rapidly, and there have been other unexpected circumstances over the last few weeks, so we couldn’t just work tightly to the schedule][Circumstances evolved rapidly, and there have been other unexpected circumstances over the last few weeks, so we couldn’t just work tightly to the schedule]] :ep30:
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*We’re quite willing to consider this a smooth endeavour with smooth progression. We should be wary of elements like "going public" which appear like a tunnel on the horizon... Let’s be wary of the cruft that crops up in what we’re doing that might be side-effects of misunderstanding or perfunctory work that is turning sour.][We’re quite willing to consider this a smooth endeavour with smooth progression. We should be wary of elements like "going public" which appear like a tunnel on the horizon... Let’s be wary of the cruft that crops up in what we’re doing that might be side-effects of misunderstanding or perfunctory work that is turning sour.]] :ep30:
- It’s a sustained activity
- Onus of scheduling the CLA isn’t on Leo.
- Maybe this is a general pattern that can reduce stress.
** Systemic approaches and solutions (social system)                :system:
#+begin_quote
If we tackle big enough projects, it will bring with it the need for
/collaboration/.  (And we need to respect these other parties.)  We like
to create tangible deliverables (e.g., journal articles).  However,
“If we knew what the outcome was it wouldn’t be research” — therefore,
we’re focusing initially on /research methods/ and, to a lesser extent,
/design documents/.

- JC 23/10: I enjoy the way we work
- Any community we work with needs to be brought on board for the way we work and vice versa.
- This relates to thinking also about the various purposes of the interacting communities we work with. So far many of the stakeholders have to do with free software, open communities, and so on.  We’re looking for themes.  The different organisations offer some alternatives (e.g., Emacs is software, Peeragogy is about learning, PM was focused on math; all of this is part of a broader initiative; and given the current worldviews, how do such things fit in?  This has been a struggle personally and for organisations.)
- Kind of like hypernotebooks (which are a tech version of this)
- We’ve worked to create better meeting structures
- What’s needed to do something like what we’re doing? We do need a long-range/long-term perspective. By bringing out the meta- topics systematically, we can revisit the things we thought before to see if we agree/disagree.
- How do we actually systematise our documents?
- How do we organise ourselves and our work?
- We did do a silent session once
- We’ve been trying to do this in recent weeks
- One of the services we can provide as a group like this is meta-management of workflows; we have a meta-organisational structure.
- Flexibility, adaptability: We’ve continued to experiment with new methods.
- Bring emotions not just sticking to a time table; balance between order and chaos?
- Not trying to do everything live but using the future intelligently (without overburdening that)
#+end_quote
*** BACK Identify potential stakeholders in Emacs Research       :breakdown:
- ‘Org Notes’ for some potential USERS
- Other potential users, also some people we can talk to as market/user research (Not all stakeholders are users.)
- Org Roam
- Zanzi’s Smos stuff, Qiantan’s S-EXP based editor, treesitter stuff
- Standardising Org? What are the different enablers?
*** BACK Identify stakeholders in the kind of activities we can support :breakdown:
- Literature review?
- “Lisp as alien technology”
*** BACK Identify venues where we can reach these different stakeholders :breakdown:
-  (who, what is the itinerary; having places to talk about research?)
*** BACK Create some publication to plant a flag for our group   :breakdown:
- To whom could we could present preliminary and intermediate results (e.g., some people who haven’t attended every session may want to have a summary to catch up).
*** BACK Keep exploring!                                         :breakdown:
- (In terms of the Peeragogy Heartbeat concept, we have some people
  holding the fort; in this sense we are doing fine in terms of
  turn-out at weekly meetings!)
- However, to make it ‘research’ we need to make sure we keep encountering the unexpected
*** Data
**** Supporting data from CLA 1                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org::*Part of a greater sense of trying to do something with EmacsConf to federate the community][Part of a greater sense of trying to do something with EmacsConf to federate the community]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org::*Joe: Leo did an amazing job facilitating the meeting][Joe: Leo did an amazing job facilitating the meeting]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org::*Public Policy conference: (How to get a grant?)][Public Policy conference: (How to get a grant?)]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-19.org::*Work on methodology of the group][Work on methodology of the group]] :ep3:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-19.org::*Have a nice language for asking for demo material, or other needs][Have a nice language for asking for demo material, or other needs]] :ep3:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-02.org::*David & Noorah have joined the Discord server!][David & Noorah have joined the Discord server!]] :ep4:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*Over the week, got a clearer notion of what’s going on here after looking at OR in action, will look at things after the call][Over the week, got a clearer notion of what’s going on here after looking at OR in action, will look at things after the call]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Make the inputs contextual.][Make the inputs contextual.]] :ep6:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*We came up with an adapted plan for the exercise][We came up with an adapted plan for the exercise]] :ep6:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Maybe milestone based funding for Org Roam][Maybe milestone based funding for Org Roam]] :ep6:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Following up w/ 1600 UTC weekdays][Following up w/ 1600 UTC weekdays]] :ep6:

**** Supporting data from CLA 2                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-23.org::*Worried that people might be burning out on meetings (PAR for Hyperreal?)][Worried that people might be burning out on meetings (PAR for Hyperreal?)]] :ep7:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-23.org::*If you're coming last-minute with an agenda this can create fatigue][If you're coming last-minute with an agenda this can create fatigue]] :ep7:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-13.org::*We’re continuing on the path of interdisciplinary learning][We’re continuing on the path of interdisciplinary learning]] :ep10:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-13.org::*Potential interview with Leo & Jethro Kuan (co-maintainers of org-roam)][Potential interview with Leo & Jethro Kuan (co-maintainers of org-roam)]] :ep10:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-20.org::*Build some Elisp sessions for ourselves in future!][Build some Elisp sessions for ourselves in future!]] :ep11:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-27.org::*Joe: the Emacs Bulletin Board should be a package to add Church of Emacs holidays to the calendar!][Joe: the Emacs Bulletin Board should be a package to add Church of Emacs holidays to the calendar!]] :ep12:
**** Supporting data from CLA 3                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*If we picked ‘Gender & FLOSS’, we know we’d use the tools to do what we wanted to do][If we picked ‘Gender & FLOSS’, we know we’d use the tools to do what we wanted to do]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*We got a look at Noorah’s thesis layout with Zanzi, and a demo of using Emacs to run bibliography][We got a look at Noorah’s thesis layout with Zanzi, and a demo of using Emacs to run bibliography]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*Charlie is in a very different position from Joe, but they’re both working with people learning data analysis skills][Charlie is in a very different position from Joe, but they’re both working with people learning data analysis skills]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*We wanted to have laid back chat rather than a minuted meeting this time][We wanted to have laid back chat rather than a minuted meeting this time]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*It evolved organically in a more unstructured session][It evolved organically in a more unstructured session]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*We hit into some key issues — many of us are trying to do science outside][We hit into some key issues — many of us are trying to do science outside]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*We also managed to describe some of the real-world conflicts depending on the users][We also managed to describe some of the real-world conflicts depending on the users]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*In the context of peeragogy we were talking about other disasters and how people can engage with them][In the context of peeragogy we were talking about other disasters and how people can engage with them]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*But we also didn’t get Leo’s checkin, partly because the rawness of the current situation][But we also didn’t get Leo’s checkin, partly because the rawness of the current situation]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Adaptability has to do w/ how strong their institutions are][Adaptability has to do w/ how strong their institutions are]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*“If I’m in this room I want to look to these topics.” This signals intention and therefore prevents confusion][“If I’m in this room I want to look to these topics.” This signals intention and therefore prevents confusion]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-17.org::*Leo did a nice job of intervening][Leo did a nice job of intervening]] :ep18:
**** Supporting data from CLA 4                                   :noexport:
- TBA
**** Supporting data from CLA 5                                   
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*Charlotte suggested more practical perspectives, making the bridge to the group you’re trying to help][Charlotte suggested more practical perspectives, making the bridge to the group you’re trying to help]] :ep25:
- Community
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*LV: this feels related to methodology, like, how to “lower the bridge to get people inside” — defining the taxonomy, explaining it, making people get the click for the vocabulary is essential.][LV: this feels related to methodology, like, how to “lower the bridge to get people inside” — defining the taxonomy, explaining it, making people get the click for the vocabulary is essential.]] :ep25:
- LV: (Nods.)
  - (Happy to see the CLA working in this way, complementing the long range.)
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*How can we use this with a rowing club, or a group of people in Brazil... 400 people at Brookes applying for grants!][How can we use this with a rowing club, or a group of people in Brazil... 400 people at Brookes applying for grants!]] :ep25:
- What’s needed to do something like what we’re doing?
- We do need a long-range/long-term perspective.
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*LV: the problem is that you’ve been pro-active, but we have not been proactive — linking the desire to organise with the ability to organise. When we go back to the PILOT.][LV: the problem is that you’ve been pro-active, but we have not been proactive — linking the desire to organise with the ability to organise. When we go back to the PILOT.]] :ep25:
- How do we actually systematise?
  - E.g., using design patterns?
***** [[file:erg-2021-08-28.org::*We looked at the =BACK= log items from the paper and decided to reflect more on that for further discussion later ("Scrapbook" style)][We looked at the =BACK= log items from the paper and decided to reflect more on that for further discussion later ("Scrapbook" style)]] :ep26:
***** [[file:erg-2021-08-28.org::*Talk to people in person! Daily acts of beneficence are always good for people writing a thesis.][Talk to people in person! Daily acts of beneficence are always good for people writing a thesis.]] :ep26:
- How do we organise ourselves?
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*JC: We could probably improving our usage of crdt.el and experiment with silent-sessions][JC: We could probably improving our usage of crdt.el and experiment with silent-sessions]] :ep27:
- We did that once
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*If we want to go public one thing we might do is upgrade our kit to at least get to Leo’s level][If we want to go public one thing we might do is upgrade our kit to at least get to Leo’s level]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*JC: In our plan for ERG, we need to make serious attempt for planning (not just planning more outputs)][JC: In our plan for ERG, we need to make serious attempt for planning (not just planning more outputs)]]  :ep28:
- We’ve been trying to do this in recent weeks
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-25.org::*We did stay focused on the topic of the talk rather than mixing in things like planning the workshop; in general our ability to stay focused is improved.][We did stay focused on the topic of the talk rather than mixing in things like planning the workshop; in general our ability to stay focused is improved.]] :ep29:
- Better meeting structures
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-25.org::*Some workshop checkin (adding structure that hasn’t been fully there with PLoP itself)][Some workshop checkin (adding structure that hasn’t been fully there with PLoP itself)]] :ep29:
- One of the services we can provide as a group like this!
- Meta-organisational structure
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*Reviewing what you’re doing and adapting is related to flexibility. You need to be able to adapt to a situation. We’ve had a good track record of justing how we run the meeting, or adjust the objectives: e.g. whitepaper (goal) vs paper (outcome).][Reviewing what you’re doing and adapting is related to flexibility. You need to be able to adapt to a situation. We’ve had a good track record of justing how we run the meeting, or adjust the objectives: e.g. whitepaper (goal) vs paper (outcome).]] :ep30:
- Flexibility, adaptability
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*We ended up being side-tracked on fielding worries about changing elements of life and getting a bit worried about the way we work together][We ended up being side-tracked on fielding worries about changing elements of life and getting a bit worried about the way we work together]] :ep30:
- Bring emotions not just sticking to a time table
- Balance between order and chaos
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-09.org::*Came up with title and abstract of the EmacsConf talk][Came up with title and abstract of the EmacsConf talk]] :ep31:
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-09.org::*September has taken a toll (PLoP, Criteo, Thesis, Abby…)][September has taken a toll (PLoP, Criteo, Thesis, Abby…)]] :ep31:
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-09.org::*If there are many topics, think about how to refile/reschedule them if we can’t realistically do them here; let’s not feel obliged to overload ourselves][If there are many topics, think about how to refile/reschedule them if we can’t realistically do them here; let’s not feel obliged to overload ourselves]] :ep31:
- Not trying to do everything live but using the future intelligently (without overburdening that)
** Worldview, ways of knowing and alternative discourse          :worldview:
#+begin_quote
We have looked at RStudio and Roam Research as models of (some of) the
kinds of things we think Emacs can eventually improve upon.
‘Practice’ and ‘method’ keep coming up in our discussions as,
respectively, ‘more bottom up’ and ‘more top down’ ways of actualising
things.  Concretely, we’ve been studying our own processes and looking
for the tools and settings that are the most conducive to the work we
want to do.  For example, instead of having a single Org Roam
directory shared via Git, what if we had ways of managing sharing of
notes across ‘graphs’?  Collaboration is familiar to all kinds of
teams across all sectors.  Even authors working alone may have need to
‘virtually collaborate with themselves’ — and of course to share their
work with others when it’s ready.  If we all had our slipboxes online,
we could reference between them.  This would generalise *ORCiD*, and
people to reference processes that are undergoing evolution.  Maybe a
service like this would turn into a ‘Tinder for academics’ — helping
to match people based on their interests (or similar people in
different fields).  So, what’s the price point?  Instead of paying
money to go to conferences, now we can spontaneously make conferences
and workshops.  As a guess, $750.0 per user per year might be a fair
price — for those who can afford to pay it — if the service helps
people to do better research and saves a bunch of travel.  We could
also set up a pricing model proportional to each country’s carbon
emissions or something like that.
- Getting some coherence out of our long-running and somewhat diverse and somewhat hetereogeneous thought process; this would be even more so the more stakeholders we involve
- What scale does something need to be at to accomplish a certain goal?
- This seems related to the long-range view; the further you look into the future the more the impetus to assess the scale becomes important.
- E.g., PLoP took way more time than we anticipated.
- If over-work due to under-estimating
- There’s a spatial scale like how much work can we actually do sustainably (with how many people)
- Making a difference might need more hands
- The recovery is still in progress but hasn’t been stuck
- We have fewer things to prepare, but we have tried to infuse our reflections into our way of working (between PLoP and EmacsConf)
- How to return to some level of chill/flow/...?
- Especially given that we are doing many other things, some of which we do in common and some which we don’t. The things we do all add up.
- ERG vs Hyperreal chats: seriousness and focus; how research happens in general communities as one possible goal
- (Chapter on MOOCS...)
- Connection with connectionism; the way people talk about connectionism can be rather shallow, it’s not just about learning facts (‘where to look things up’)
- ARTICULATION is relation connection; there’s a function to be performed by the entire system
- This suggests: articulation and learning where we want to emphasise this
- Leo: info(bla) isn’t enough; it’s one thing to have an encyclopedia, it’s another to have a good way to access it.  You do have some guidance (manual plus introduction to elisp, but it’s still a step too far... b/c it lacks interactivity, though it’s a stellar source for intermediate people)
- Emacs invites people to open the manual where they need to read, so it becomes almost epistolary, which creates wide knowledge but also gaps...
- Wouldn’t it be nice to have a map of the knowledge you’ve already seen, so you know what you’ve covered
- The source, with regard to info pages for Elisp: if NNexus could track the amount of the manual that have been read... you can use this as data, e.g., 90% of writing conditions but hardly anything with loops.
- This is pleasant for us and prompts new ideas
- People can experience an aha moment when in 2 hours of work (magic number) they actually accomplish something
- This is related to the notion of ‘clicks’
- Tim’s PlanetMath code?
- Roles to employ, sometimes they do fall to these people
- Working before or close to the deadline
- By now it has morphed again
#+end_quote
*** BACK Spec out the Emacs based ‘answer’ to RStudio, Roam Research (not Logseq) :breakdown:
-  (It would be great if we got the next big thing up and running in a year... but this is a lot to ask.)
- But what would the “next big thing” look like at the level of, say, an ERC proposal?
*** BACK Develop our own intention-based workflow                :breakdown:
- [x] Surfacing the experimental ground
- [ ] What else?
*** BACK Continue to develop and refine our methods              :breakdown:
- This is already incorporated with the PAR and CLA (that’s actionable)
- So would be doubling down here with a paper on our methods for PLoP
*** BACK Develop a suitable collaborative writing workflow for a specific shared output :breakdown:
*** BACK Think about the product and business development plans for a multigraph interlinking service :breakdown:
- Inyatullah would want us to think critically about what we’re saying in this document.
*** BACK Something similar with Pete Kaminsky and Lauralie ‘matching’
- Harder to do soul-matching...
- It’s not just what they need to go but what you need to avoid (or, which half of the room?)
- Use the friend magnetism to attract people (GravPad?)
*** Data
**** Supporting data from CLA 1                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org][Wonderful outcome from attending EmacsConf 2020!]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-19.org::*Felt a degree of coherence][Felt a degree of coherence]] :ep3:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-02.org::*This could turn into a grant (be careful!)][This could turn into a grant (be careful!)]] :ep4:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-02.org::*Virtuous circle of reflection.][Virtuous circle of reflection.]] :ep4:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*About these PARS... the method of ongoing review still needs improvement][About these PARS... the method of ongoing review still needs improvement]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*Awareness of the adversarial process in review of research][Awareness of the adversarial process in review of research]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*We’re contributing to Peeragogy from within][We’re contributing to Peeragogy from within]] :ep6:

**** Supporting data from CLA 2                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-23.org::*More fun to do this sort of stuff than the rules & structures of academia][More fun to do this sort of stuff than the rules & structures of academia]] :ep7:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Cover Oxford application some more][Cover Oxford application some more]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Collaborative annotations][Collaborative annotations]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Noorah’s expertise, talking about her interests, made for an interesting conversation on Leo’s research][Noorah’s expertise, talking about her interests, made for an interesting conversation on Leo’s research]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-06.org::*This (meeting with Qiantan) is a perfect example of the kind of thing we wanted to do][This (meeting with Qiantan) is a perfect example of the kind of thing we wanted to do]] :ep9:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-06.org::*Qiantan doesn’t use org mode... it generates section][Qiantan doesn’t use org mode... it generates section]] :ep9:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-13.org::*Anthropology + Psychology is a special nightmare for reproducibility][Anthropology + Psychology is a special nightmare for reproducibility]] :ep10:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-13.org::*Maybe the ERG could contribute further patterns?][Maybe the ERG could contribute further patterns?]] :ep10:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-20.org::*It’s all happening within a context, and now that we’re all getting more familiar with patterns, we’re more aware of thinking of things /contextually/][It’s all happening within a context, and now that we’re all getting more familiar with patterns, we’re more aware of thinking of things contextually]] :ep11:
**** Supporting data from CLA 3                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*Using the techniques which have been deployed in the Peeragogy project in ERG from the start was a good bet][Using the techniques which have been deployed in the Peeragogy project in ERG from the start was a good bet]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*We wanted to know if things like the index project had to do with our projects — we got some value out of it; if we don’t do that, we can get torn apart and all the ideas don’t fit, whereas if you have an idea of they fit into a bigger thing it’s easier to make progress][We wanted to know if things like the index project had to do with our projects — we got some value out of it; if we don’t do that, we can get torn apart and all the ideas don’t fit, whereas if you have an idea of they fit into a bigger thing it’s easier to make progress]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*Joe liked bringing in a Deleuze quote; and connecting to an idea of an 8-handed composition][Joe liked bringing in a Deleuze quote; and connecting to an idea of an 8-handed composition]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*We could come up with a pseudo-Agile retro after the CLA to have unstructured discussions like we’ve had today][We could come up with a pseudo-Agile retro after the CLA to have unstructured discussions like we’ve had today]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*NA: Continuing on the goal of ‘how to do collaborative research’ — e.g. switching formats to minimise information loss, incorporating comments on Word and incorporating them][NA: Continuing on the goal of ‘how to do collaborative research’ — e.g. switching formats to minimise information loss, incorporating comments on Word and incorporating them]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*LV: Feels like the discussion with Ray silenced Noorah?][LV: Feels like the discussion with Ray silenced Noorah?]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*JC: I was happy to see Ray’s use of Logseq][JC: I was happy to see Ray’s use of Logseq]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Will our stuff about design patterns and futures be useful][Will our stuff about design patterns and futures be useful]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Maybe we can do some shared readings around Noorah’s ‘adaptive capacity’ themes][Maybe we can do some shared readings around Noorah’s ‘adaptive capacity’ themes]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Ray’s point about NNexus and the link with what org-roam is doing, esp. ~org-roam-unlinked-references~][Ray’s point about NNexus and the link with what org-roam is doing, esp. ~org-roam-unlinked-references~]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-17.org::*I think we should probably be thinking more in terms of PAR+CLA for Hyperreal?][I think we should probably be thinking more in terms of PAR+CLA for Hyperreal?]] :ep18:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-17.org::*But there’s a problem with Emacs, which is that there isn’t proper intro][But there’s a problem with Emacs, which is that there isn’t proper intro]] :ep18:
**** Supporting data from CLA 4                                   :noexport:
- TBA
**** Supporting data from CLA 5                                   
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*Diversity; Noorah was talking about the Utility of CLA when they have multiple meetings, going back to the meetings — going — different vocabularies can make lack of cohesion or even conflict — transdisciplinarity came up][Diversity; Noorah was talking about the Utility of CLA when they have multiple meetings, going back to the meetings — going — different vocabularies can make lack of cohesion or even conflict — transdisciplinarity came up]] :ep25:
- Getting some coherence out of our long-running and somewhat diverse and somewhat hetereogeneous thought process; this would be even more so the more stakeholders we involve
- What scale does something need to be at to accomplish a certain goal?
- This seems related to the long-range view; the further you look into the future the more the impetus to assess the scale becomes important.
- E.g., PLoP took way more time than we anticipated.
***** [[file:erg-2021-08-28.org::*Burn-out and recovery is always in progress...][Burn-out and recovery is always in progress...]] :ep26:
- If over-work due to under-estimating
- There’s a spatial scale like how much work can we actually do sustainably (with how many people)
- Making a difference might need more hands
- The recovery is still in progress but hasn’t been stuck
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*LV: One reason for speaking/chairing more than before is that I’m formalising the things we do, and the pseudo-org-agenda is presently in my head, so I’m bringing up the meta-points, this causes us to jump to another level even if I try to do it in a way that’s unobtrusive][LV: One reason for speaking/chairing more than before is that I’m formalising the things we do, and the pseudo-org-agenda is presently in my head, so I’m bringing up the meta-points, this causes us to jump to another level even if I try to do it in a way that’s unobtrusive]] :ep27:
- We have fewer things to prepare, but we have tried to infuse our reflections into our way of working (between PLoP and EmacsConf)
- How to return to some level of chill/flow/...?
- Especially given that we are doing many other things, some of which we do in common and some which we don’t. The things we do all add up.
- ERG vs Hyperreal chats: seriousness and focus; how research happens in general communities as one possible goal
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-11.org::*Maybe we should spend some time on concerns at the start of the next meeting][Maybe we should spend some time on concerns at the start of the next meeting]] :ep27:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*Leo brought some "how do we do things around here" ideas and questions for discussion][Leo brought some "how do we do things around here" ideas and questions for discussion]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*What about an Emacs MOOC? (Revisit the Peeragogy chapter with an applied example.)][What about an Emacs MOOC? (Revisit the Peeragogy chapter with an applied example.)]] :ep28:
- (Chapter on MOOCS...)
- Connection with connectionism; the way people talk about connectionism can be rather shallow, it’s not just about learning facts (‘where to look things up’)
- ARTICULATION is relation connection; there’s a function to be performed by the entire system
- This suggests: articulation and learning where we want to emphasise this
- Leo: info(bla) isn’t enough; it’s one thing to have an encyclopedia, it’s another to have a good way to access it.  You do have some guidance (manual plus introduction to elisp, but it’s still a step too far... b/c it lacks interactivity, though it’s a stellar source for intermediate people)
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*Try to keep the agenda to 3 POINTS for ease of grasping by attendees][Try to keep the agenda to 3 POINTS for ease of grasping by attendees]] :ep28:
- Emacs invites people to open the manual where they need to read, so it becomes almost epistolary, which creates wide knowledge but also gaps...
- Wouldn’t it be nice to have a map of the knowledge you’ve already seen, so you know what you’ve covered
  - LV: Similar to NNexus project (you know 80%)
- The source, with regard to info pages for Elisp: if NNexus could track the amount of the manual that have been read... you can use this as data, e.g., 90% of writing conditions but hardly anything with loops.
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-25.org::*LV: Changes in modes/rhythms of meeting allows us to explore different ways of working together; this builds our repertoire (staccato, agenda, minutes, whatever); we can redeploy them later][LV: Changes in modes/rhythms of meeting allows us to explore different ways of working together; this builds our repertoire (staccato, agenda, minutes, whatever); we can redeploy them later]] :ep29:
- This is pleasant for us and prompts new ideas
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-25.org::*Efficiency means that people feel something has been accomplished, and this has been going up; this energy could provide impetus to future uses of the workshop][Efficiency means that people feel something has been accomplished, and this has been going up; this energy could provide impetus to future uses of the workshop]] :ep29:
- People can experience an aha moment when in 2 hours of work (magic number) they actually accomplish something
- This is related to the notion of ‘clicks’
- Tim’s PlanetMath code?
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*Yesterday we talked about =Joe:Chaos=, =Leo:Organisation=; now we see how that can play out practically.][Yesterday we talked about =Joe:Chaos=, =Leo:Organisation=; now we see how that can play out practically.]] :ep30:
- Roles to employ, sometimes they do fall to these people
- Working before or close to the deadline
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-09.org::*Our talk morphed from a more technical talk (last time we discussed it) to a more entertaining lunchtime talk][Our talk morphed from a more technical talk (last time we discussed it) to a more entertaining lunchtime talk]] :ep31:
- By now it has morphed again
** Myths, metaphors and narratives: imagined (longer term change) :narrative:
#+begin_quote
In our concrete methods, we have aligned ourselves with the ‘[[https://longtermist.substack.com/][long-term
perspective]]’.  This includes both retrospective and prospective
thinking.  For example, the things that were timely 7 years ago might
not be so timely now; in many cases the relevance of a given
innovation goes down over time.  However, Emacs has an evolutionary
character that has allowed it to keep up with the times — becoming
more relevant and useful ever since Steele and Stallman started to
systematise [[https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/freedom/ch06.html][Editor MACroS]] for the Text Editor and Corrector (TECO)
program.  Not only has the technology evolved, but so has the social
setting in which this work is done.  Whereas the concepts underlying
the free software movement were based on “[[http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/emacs-paper.html][communal sharing]]” of source
code, with due reflection these methods extend much more broadly, and
allow us to synthesise new relationships within broader semiotic
commons.  Emacs can become a system for addressing any ‘existential’
problem.  This does not yet push us beyond what’s humanly possible,
but may expand the frontier of possibility.
#+end_quote
*** BACK Survey related work                                     :breakdown:
*** BACK Assess what we’re learning                              :breakdown:
*** BACK Figure out the gender balance stuff
*** Data
**** Supporting data from CLA 1                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2020-12-02.org::*We generally agreed that we want to make something that exposes intrinsic value of using these tools][We generally agreed that we want to make something that exposes intrinsic value of using these tools]] :ep1:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*Taking a step back was helpful][Taking a step back was helpful]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-09.org::*Missing link in HCI: refinement! Another: the importance of collaboration! — Everyone is able to collect a lot of data, but if people can’t refine... collaborative writing based on refinement of drafts &c; is not a proper way to elaborate][Missing link in HCI: refinement! Another: the importance of collaboration! — Everyone is able to collect a lot of data, but if people can’t refine... collaborative writing based on refinement of drafts &c; is not a proper way to elaborate]] :ep5:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Relationship between these kinds of personal health things and the "group health"][Relationship between these kinds of personal health things and the "group health"]] :ep6:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-16.org::*Finding density poles within research?][Finding density poles within research?]] :ep6:
**** Supporting data from CLA 2                                   :noexport:
:PROPERTIES:
:VISIBILITY: folded
:END:
***** [[file:erg-2021-01-30.org::*Noorah mentioned interest in pattern templates][Noorah mentioned interest in pattern templates]] :ep8:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-06.org::*We understand the CRDT algorithm and also features of the code (like clicking on users to follow them)][We understand the CRDT algorithm and also features of the code (like clicking on users to follow them)]] :ep9:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-06.org::*Prepare for CRDT Hackathon in summer?][Prepare for CRDT Hackathon in summer?]] :ep9:
***** [[file:erg-2021-02-20.org::*Joe: can report back on practical details of serendipity next week!][Joe: can report back on practical details of serendipity next week!]] :ep11:
**** Supporting data from CLA 3                                   :noexport:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-06.org::*We’ve gotten to know one another to the point where it’s become tricky to find the common denominators of the group][We’ve gotten to know one another to the point where it’s become tricky to find the common denominators of the group]] :ep13:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*If 3 weeks out of the 4 we are focusing on a blue-print (keeping in mind that I’m not an architect) — in the 4th there’s also the opportunity to step back][If 3 weeks out of the 4 we are focusing on a blue-print (keeping in mind that I’m not an architect) — in the 4th there’s also the opportunity to step back]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-13.org::*We need to address the gender balance sometime][We need to address the gender balance sometime]] :ep14:
***** [[file:erg-2021-03-27.org::*There can be very different expectations about how collaborations go][There can be very different expectations about how collaborations go]] :ep15:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-03.org::*Exciting to think about ‘the future of emacs, free software, citizen science’][Exciting to think about ‘the future of emacs, free software, citizen science’]] :ep16:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*Joe came ready to continue emotional processing][Joe came ready to continue emotional processing]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-10.org::*(This is good b/c we’re not letting things fester.)][(This is good b/c we’re not letting things fester.)]] :ep17:
***** [[file:erg-2021-04-17.org::*But there was no such guidance; you were in the middle of an alien playground. “But I just wanted to do my Clojure stuff.”][But there was no such guidance; you were in the middle of an alien playground. “But I just wanted to do my Clojure stuff.”]] :ep18:
**** Supporting data from CLA 4                                   :noexport:
- TBA
**** Supporting data from CLA 5
***** [[file:erg-2021-06-19.org::*Maybe this is also about /encoding patterns/ — your brain is fitted to see patterns in the world and put concepts behind them. When you regress from this point and assimilate it... ‘groking’... you’re after the click!][Maybe this is also about /encoding patterns/ — your brain is fitted to see patterns in the world and put concepts behind them. When you regress from this point and assimilate it... ‘groking’... you’re after the click!]] :ep25:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*NA: Where can I put a comment about “Why we should present our case of people getting together and creating their own communities similar to ours?”][NA: Where can I put a comment about “Why we should present our case of people getting together and creating their own communities similar to ours?”]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*Some of the pressure I felt was assuming 1 default meaning of ‘going public’; can we make clear the meanings we have for these key things; we haven’t done the job, it’s been nebulous. Only when we considered the EmacsConf proposal did we consider this.][Some of the pressure I felt was assuming 1 default meaning of ‘going public’; can we make clear the meanings we have for these key things; we haven’t done the job, it’s been nebulous. Only when we considered the EmacsConf proposal did we consider this.]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*JC: CRDT is similar to a blackboard (cf. Michael Barrany); recall that Joe used to do real-time transcripts in maths, there is something anchoring for what we could do here][JC: CRDT is similar to a blackboard (cf. Michael Barrany); recall that Joe used to do real-time transcripts in maths, there is something anchoring for what we could do here]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*Where do peeragogy, Hyperreal, ERG (etc.) begin and end?][Where do peeragogy, Hyperreal, ERG (etc.) begin and end?]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*Because of the tension with PLoP we need to be more clear about "what is Peeragogy, what is PLoP, where to put them... so we don’t cause too much tension by taking over everything" (10% of the way by focusing on EmacsConf in ERG, but short things can get distracting)][Because of the tension with PLoP we need to be more clear about "what is Peeragogy, what is PLoP, where to put them... so we don’t cause too much tension by taking over everything" (10% of the way by focusing on EmacsConf in ERG, but short things can get distracting)]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-18.org::*The meta-talk we are preparing will help us understand the ‘bodies’ that fit into this scheme in a Deleuzian sense][The meta-talk we are preparing will help us understand the ‘bodies’ that fit into this scheme in a Deleuzian sense]] :ep28:
***** [[file:erg-2021-09-25.org::*‘Gangue’ is slag around something precious; an egg of slag that contains something precious][‘Gangue’ is slag around something precious; an egg of slag that contains something precious]] :ep29:
***** [[file:erg-2021-10-02.org::*LV: We often mobilise transdisciplinarity, but another might be originality. By putting "Research" in the title we strive towards the goal of fitting to whatever research is meant to be, but our work and style actually reflects a lot of originality. So we should be careful of all the usual stuff that other RGs do. Let’s try to be wary of stereotypical behaviours: take the expectations with a grain of salt. Debrief them in whatever setting.][LV: We often mobilise transdisciplinarity, but another might be originality. By putting "Research" in the title we strive towards the goal of fitting to whatever research is meant to be, but our work and style actually reflects a lot of originality. So we should be careful of all the usual stuff that other RGs do. Let’s try to be wary of stereotypical behaviours: take the expectations with a grain of salt. Debrief them in whatever setting.]] :ep30:
