:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       eba531ea-7a47-4dba-bdd5-045d27cf0033
:END:
#+TITLE: CLA 16 January 2021
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-01-16 Saturday>
#+roam_tag: HI

# Cross references:
# erg-02-12-2020.org 1
# erg-12-12-2020.org 2
# erg-19-12-2020.org 3
# erg-02-01-2021.org 4
# erg-09-01-2021.org 5
# erg-16-01-2021.org 6
# erg-23-01-2021.org 7
# erg-30-01-2021.org 8

* Objective for this session?

‘What is our vision for change and how is progress measurable?’

** Understanding data, headlines, empirical world (short term change) :data:
#+begin_quote
- We need to be collectively confident on the major themes (maybe set a realistic deadline at the end of Feb)
- Maybe add a couple of demos for this quarter (assigned and on the calendar)
#+end_quote
*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][Everyone shared a brief intro and ideas so we got to know each other]] :ep1:
*** [[id:1390f4db-0a8f-4eef-9fed-cf2399a21822][Plan whitepaper — Still narrowing to a decent output]] :ep3:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][LV: Planning to go back over notes & improve current ZK to share]] :ep5:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Joe to pass info about Firn tags to Leo]] :ep6:

** Systemic approaches and solutions (social system) :system:
#+begin_quote
- Requires a larger community of contributors for it to work.
- How do we differentiate authorship in those notes?
- Our work needs to be public first before we can embark on this project.
#+end_quote

*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][Part of a greater sense of trying to do something with EmacsConf to federate the community]] :ep1:
*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][Joe: Leo did an amazing job facilitating the meeting]] :ep1:
*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][Public Policy conference: (How to get a grant?)]] :ep1:
*** [[id:1030076c-d30c-44c7-b101-756abc836cd1][Work on methodology of the group]] :ep3:
*** [[id:1030076c-d30c-44c7-b101-756abc836cd1][Have a nice language for asking for demo material, or other needs]] :ep3:
*** [[id:1390f4db-0a8f-4eef-9fed-cf2399a21822][David & Noorah have joined the Discord server!]] :ep4:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][Over the week, got a clearer notion of what’s going on here after looking at OR in action, will look at things after the call]] :ep5:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Make the inputs contextual.]] :ep6:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][We came up with an adapted plan for the exercise]] :ep6:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Maybe milestone based funding for Org Roam]] :ep6:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Following up w/ 1600 UTC weekdays]] :ep6:

** Worldview, ways of knowing and alternative discourse :worldview:
#+begin_quote
- /Practice/: Different to ‘method’ (the latter is more top down)
- *Collaborative is a key theme*
- /Talking about actualizing what we’re doing/: This keeps popping up, so might be worth discussing tomorrow.
- Now (30th January) we try to integrate *my* (Noorah’s) thoughts on a set of notes that we create together across time. How does this work?
  - Annotations and history
  - “Bookdown” to create book in Markdown?
  - *Hypothes.is* to have access to WIP (https://via.hypothes.is/https://www.gnu.org/)
  - Trying to structure my dissertation, which has many parts; and I have a committee that needs to comment on progress
    - How is the progress of an applicant/researcher measured?
      - Visible outputs of research; // quantifiable research
- We started off with PARs, then we started thinking through our past PARs, then observing /patterns/...
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.03736
  - Seeing patterns require a high-level view.
  - ‘Patterns’ as ‘projects’; parallels to LV’s workflow?
  - How can we make our patterns work in a collaborative fashion?
    - e.g. having similar patterns with Qiantan; how do we share?
    - Linked to /common ground/?  How do we find common ground with people?  Technically speaking, but also methodologically/practice-oriented speaking
#+end_quote
*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][Wonderful outcome from attending EmacsConf 2020!]] :ep1:
*** [[id:1030076c-d30c-44c7-b101-756abc836cd1][Felt a degree of coherence]] :ep3:
*** [[id:1390f4db-0a8f-4eef-9fed-cf2399a21822][This could turn into a grant (be careful!)]] :ep4:
*** [[id:1390f4db-0a8f-4eef-9fed-cf2399a21822][Virtuous circle of reflection.]] :ep4:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][About these PARS... the method of ongoing review still needs improvement]] :ep5:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][Awareness of the adversarial process in review of research]] :ep5:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][We’re contributing to Peeragogy from within]] :ep6:

** Myths, metaphors and narratives: imagined (longer term change) :narrative:
#+begin_quote
- /Method/: This keeps popping up too. We may need to decide on a few activities/deliverables, just something more tangible.
- /Link between method & practice?/  Actualising what we’re doing
  - What gives an *Objective* character to what we’re doing?  (It’s fine to do something that we’re enjoying, but there must be something about actualising.  Even if it were just fun; how can we make it so that even more fun.
  - Top-down approach of method vs. the bottom-up approach of practice
- https://hbr.org/2005/07/learning-in-the-thick-of-it
- If we tackle big enough projects would create need for collaboration /en train/
#+end_quote
*** [[id:f46b9378-d4f4-40e0-bb52-133e9fdeec5a][We generally agreed that we want to make something that exposes intrinsic value of using these tools]] :ep1:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][Taking a step back was helpful]] :ep5:
*** [[id:60742fc0-3346-4902-9b3a-ae2ef577c92a][Missing link in HCI: refinement! Another: the importance of collaboration! — Everyone is able to collect a lot of data, but if people can’t refine... collaborative writing based on refinement of drafts &c; is not a proper way to elaborate]] :ep5:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Relationship between these kinds of personal health things and the "group health"]] :ep6:
*** [[id:b15d410d-17e9-4d42-b579-2066d2bebe69][Finding density poles within research?]] :ep6:
