#+TITLE: 23 October 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Raymond Puzio, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-10-23 Sat>

* 23 October 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                            :15m:
** Noorah
- Injured her back (ouch!) after going Too Hard™ at the gym
  - For the record, she did get her sets in, though.
** Joe
- Not too good, not too bad either
- Spent a nice afternoon with Alex
- Still feeling blue
  - RP: Cf. Homer’s ‘Wine-colored sea’.
  - Advice from one of JC’s sister: ‘Don’t hold off until you have meaningful connection with people’
- Interesting question: ‘Because we have such a positive attitude towards the way we work together, could it inform the way we work in other groups?’
  - RP: Let’s get things done today!
** Ray
- Busy but it’s not out of hand; wants to get things done in this call, so let’s keep things moving along!
- Getting something done today can help, anything that needs to wait can wait.
** Leo
- Interview feedback at the end of the week, with 2½ or 3 weeks to get to the next round.
- Got some parental bailout to get some more interview prep time; fairly emotionally drained.
- Didn’t have EmacsConf today

* Meta points
** DONE Don’t forget to record the session!                             :LV:
CLOSED: [2021-10-23 Sat 18:45]
** DONE Figure out calendar for next three weeks (given TZ changes)
CLOSED: [2021-10-23 Sat 18:52]
| W+1          | No change next week; but US: -1 the next day |
| W+2 [Nov. 6] | US: -1 (meet 17:30 UK for a *1 hour* meeting)  |
| W+3 [Nov 13] | EU: -1 (meet 17:30 UK as usual)              |

(Announcement to be sent after the next meeting so we don’t confuse anyone.)

* Agenda                                                               :85m:

** EmacsConf: Prep talk                                                :40m:
*** Tentative objectives
**** Detailed script for the talk
*** Plan
**** Delivery notes
***** Noorah’s initial version
- How we have been running meetings (what we are using)
- BBB, CRDT, PARs, checkins/checkouts chronology
- What we want to do moving forward
***** Some ideas (tentative; but maybe let’s not actually do this?) 
- RP/NA giving the presentation?
  - But maybe we want 1 or 4 speakers, let’s return to this later
- JC/LV taking notes in a crdt.el buffer (JC: live demo is more impactful than a talk)

***** What does it actually look like?
- One of us talking about our journey... but what am I looking at?
- Is it someone taking notes on what’s being delivered verbally?
- Initially show someone talking and someone writing, then expand it to just show what’s being written

**** PRELUDE: THE TAKE-HOME POINT FOR YOU, UP FRONT                   :2m:
- In our short talk we share information about the methods we use in the Emacs Research Group
- Today we will make a case for other people getting together and creating their own small research communities similar to ours.
- We will tell you how we do things, and show you as well a brief demo of how we work together.

**** BACKGROUND + TECHNOLOGY                                          :2m:
- The FOUR of us met at EmacsConf 2020, and joined together around a common interest in Emacs and research.
- Since then, we have convened as the Emacs Research Group for weekly meetings.
- During these meetings, we took notes collaboratively, using a ‘conflict-free replicated data type’ package (crdt. el);
**** DEMO                                                             :2m:
- (Excerpt from the making-of the talk session on 23/10.)
- Writing this talk could be meta (we could return to the recording, roughly around 00:38 in the recording)

**** PROCESS                                                          :2m:
- *Begin by showing a not-filled-in outline of the session as a slide*
  - "This is how we organise our org file"
- At the end of each session, we debriefed using a template that we call a Project Action Review (PAR).
- As as a meta-review of our sessions, every six weeks we prepared a Causal Layered Analysis (CLA), which gave us a different perspective on what we had done.
- We reflected further on our experiences and methods, linking our CLA to plans and design patterns.

**** OUTCOMES (SHOW + TELL in Action Review format)                   :2m:
- As a formal research output, we contributed a write-up of these matters to a joint paper which we presented at the Pattern Languages of Programs Conference (PLoP 2021).
- The paper included an interactive workshop, in which we explored roles in real-time problem solving and collaboration.

**** CONCLUSION                                                       :1m:

- JC: ‘If we think about the theme of /going public/, this presentation could be it for now: but it doesn’t mean that we want to invite everyone there; we’re more about sharing the methods’

**** LIVE Q&A (4 minutes)

*** Storyboard
|---------------------------------------------------------------------+---|
| PRELUDE                                                             | 1 |
| You can create your own small research communities similar to ours. | * |
| BACKGROUND + TECHNOLOGY                                             | 2 |
| Emacs Research Group                                                | * |
| Weekly meetings                                                     | * |
| Crdt notes                                                          | * |
| PRERECORDED DEMO                                                    | 2 |
| (Video snippet from 23/10.)                                         | § |
| PROCESS                                                             | 2 |
| "This is how we organise our org file"                              | * |
| Project Action Review                                               | * |
| Causal Layered Analysis                                             | * |
| Next steps and Design Patterns                                      | * |
| OUTCOMES                                                            | 2 |
| The PLoP paper                                                      | * |
| Overall PAR of Season Zero                                          | * |
| CONCLUSION                                                          | 1 |
| "Going public" for now means sharing this talk                      | * |
| Q&A                                                                 | 5 |

- (Note that clarifying questions can take 2 minutes, this limits the number of questions we can actually field live.)
- What are the next steps for us to prepare?
- Binned:
  - 2-3 slides per section could

- Tentative homework:
  - Make 1-2 slides
** Tentative calendar for overflow
*** [2021-10-26 Tue] (1500Z)
** PAUSE                                                                :5m:
** CLA: 2nd part                                                       :40m:
*** Quick summary of what we did last week
*** Go through System, Worldview
* PAR                                                                  :10m:
*** 1. Review the intention: what did we expect to learn or make together?
- Prep EmacsConf talk (via set objectives) and work on CLA
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Myth level dropped (catsonified by Bella on the floor)
- We got through a nice outline and initial storyboard of the talk (but not script yte)
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- We’ve been focused between PLoP, workshop, EmacsConf: in 2 or 3 weeks we’ll be ready to move on
- NA: Yay outline! Looking forward to recording it next week
- JC: Following from his check-in; we didn’t really answer the question: ‘Because we have such a positive attitude towards the way we work together, could it inform the way we work in other groups?’
- LV: This could be a thematic question to come back to after EmacsConf; it’s not linked to any output but it’s linked to inputs from all of us and the groups in which we work, can we get a high-level view on how the groups work or don’t?
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
- Planned what we will do next week
- Try to minimise work we do outside of the ERG slot
- "Understanding how groups interact with each other" is part of what we can offer towards sharing effective methods; Hypernotebooks as a metaphor for this is kind of clever
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- RP: As we were saying once we get through EmacsConf we will have cleared our projects; so what’s going on in the wings? What may have been left behind?
- We had started getting in touch with Qiantan, and it has broadened to logic and other areas; we might want to pick up on these things especially as they relate to Emacs
- So after we get through delivery phase, can we get back to these people and involve them?  And how to bring in NNexus as well?
- Stakeholder meeting to complement our recorded talk?
- What are the different groups, what are their purposes, what’s their structure? Are they in fact different groups or what?  How do they relate?

* Tentative agenda for next week
** EmacsConf: Storyboarding
- (Building on the accumulating material in [[file:erg/emacsconf-notes.org][ERG EmacsConf 2021 notes]].)
** EmacsConf: Prep recording

* Check-out                                                            :10m:
** LV
- Happy about the session!
- Won’t need Tuesday overflow, we could do a quick thing in 15 minutes in coffee time
** RP
- Have a good weekend and see you next week
- With the previous plan, if you don’t feel well we can skip the workshop thing this Thursday?
** NA
- Hungry
** JC
- I have lauded ERG+Hyperreal as well-function research group(s)/network(s)
- This has been borne out today!
