#+TITLE: 13 March 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-03-13 Saturday>

* 13 March 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                             :20m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   0:20
:END:
** Noorah
- Feeling Leo’s plan of a relaxed meeting
- Experience with R: I started in 2015
- Nominal value — you can associate a variable w/ the data type — as  a factor, and it can be ordered — a factor can be ordered or unordered
- In some cases the number have a meaning... The numbers can still be categories
- "statistical methods for categorical data analysis" — Daniel Powers
- https://www.amazon.com/Statistical-Methods-Categorical-Data-Analysis/dp/0125637365
- "what question I have" + "in R"...
- Reprex package — reproducible examples via https://www.tidyverse.org/help/#reprex-pkg can share any bugs on Github, finding minimal working steps towards an example
** Joe
- Walking around London some today — the birds were very excited by the weather
** Raymond
- Curious about grants meeting (it went well)
- Lisp people are enthusiastic
- Wanted to tell JC: thinking about how to learn new science and math areas; thinking with regard to book indexes for example
- We talked about ‘Org Roam’ & using it to organise your thoughts
- I was thinking, relative to what we were saying with indexes, what about organising the literature of a scientific subject: there is some commonality in there.
- In Org Roam you might have organised your /thoughts/ — But a book index is basically a /Roadmap/ to a book.
- How could I combine different indexes to find a roadmap to an entire subject?
** Cameron
** David
** Leo
- Package delivery problems
- How to query SE, kills the region, try machine learning...
- Had a heavy week

* Things to keep in mind
** Record the sodding session
** Spinoza philosophy
** Upcoming code day — Joe as guest and maybe go a little longer?
** Check out
- [[https://www.connectedpapers.com/][https://www.connectedpapers.com/]]
- There’s a lot of work to be done with indexes, e.g, “See Instead: ...” 
- This is doing some proto- slip box stuff
- There could be a method about writing indexes which is informed by the methods we’ve been using here
- We’ve seen indexes that are completely bog standard, people already did C-f /the titles/ or they did it in LaTeX and it is done automatically
- But when there’s thinking involved, you can feel the thinking behind it, especially when there’s something verbose like a thesis
- The index is a way to go off the trail, to see if you can find some meaning based on your experience; it’s similar to starting the book ‘from the end’
- When you want to look at a whole field it would take time 
- “Conceptual rhymes” — could be added into the structure

** The structure of an index
- You have notes all over the place, but once you start structuring things it’s /your way/ of of structuring the knowledge, e.g., Noorah may link oil to politics and economics; someone else will link it to engineering
- This reminds Ray of Babar — it’s a program written by Pierre de Lacaze — so you would look for oil in the contex
- Maybe this is similar to our luck with CRDT! - Having a look at github.com/delaray

** We should have a look at stabilising CRDT’s connect
- Would be good to have crdt-version
 
* Agenda                                                               :90m:
:PROPERTIES:
:COLUMNS:  %ITEM %Effort(Effort){:}
:END:

* CLA Bullet points to turn into prose

#+begin_quote
We’ve made progress since we started with the raw themes of “Research on/in/with Emacs”.  We’ve had interesting and varied guests, and some developing plans for the quarter ahead.  We’ve got a workflow with careful review and diagnosis of issues when expectations aren’t met.  Our work needs to be public first before we can embark on the next phase of this project — which is to mesh with ongoing related activities elsewhere.

If we tackle big enough projects, it will bring with it the need for collaboration (who, what is the itinerary; having places to talk about research?).  While we like to create tangible deliverables (e.g., journal articles, rather than half-baked/half-finished publications), “If we knew what the outcome was it wouldn’t be research” — and we want to keep a role for /serendipity/ in our work. (Good to have some people holding the fort; we’re doing fine in terms of turn-out at weekly meetings!)

We have looked at RStudio as a model of (some of) the
kinds of things we want to do (would be great if we got
it up and running in a year... but this is a lot to ask).
‘Practice’ and ‘method’ keep coming up (respectively,
more bottom up and more top down ways of actualising what
we’re doing; focusing on what we’re actually doing, and
when we’re clear on that, we look at which settings are
the most conducive). E.g., one /method/ would be: instead
of having a shared Org Roam directory, having ways of
managing sharing of notes across ‘graphs’. (Collaborative
work, academia, writing a book; have we seen /ORCiD./ If we
all had our slipboxes on there we. Finding these things
which are continually evolving. A Tinder for academics to
match people based on interest... Instead of paying money to go to conferences!  Now we can spontaneously make up conferences. $750.0)

What gives an objective character to what we’re doing?  (Noting also that time is going by; things that were timely 7 years ago might not be timely now; the actual relevance goes down.)  Or, rather: what is it that allows us to synthesise new relationships?  What big or ‘existential’ problem are we solving... we’re not pushing ourselves beyond what’s humanly possible, but we are pushing ourselves to learn.
#+end_quote

- If we had a shared document what would the audience look like?
- Does this represent what we think?
  - LV: JC’s ‘From the top’ really gave me conservatory PTSD
- Maybe the chief issue in crossing disciplines is /vocabulary/
- Cross-disciplinary languages?
  - How can I sit and absorb this language! — It involves being uncomfortable in new situations and being ready to be uncomfortable in these situations...
  - This relates to what we’re doing
  - When LV was talking about fuzzy-matching problems in SX for solutions; maybe we could have a similar approach to bridging the transdisciplinary gaps
  - JC related this to the fruitful relationship between Deleuze & Guattari
- Similar to Hyperreal with their ‘four-handed’ method now 8 or 16 handed workflows
- The rôle of indices, and their relationship to the slip-box method
- Links to explore; possible people to work with?
  - [[https://github.com/delaray][delaray (Pierre de Lacaze) · GitHub]]
  - [[https://github.com/delaray/babar][GitHub - delaray/babar: Babar is an independent research project in the field of Artificial Intelligence. Babar is implemented in several programming languages including CLOS, Python and Clojure.]]
  - Let’s table the discussion, and let’s work this out in the daily HyperReal chatsc (coffee chats)

* Collecting some thoughts

We want to create a writing entity that is more than the sum of its parts, and its parts our us.

We want more wealth than just our isolated work.

There’s the saying that you’re the average of people with whom you spend the most amount of time.

It then becomes about: how much intersection there is between the Venn diagrams to construe something that’s of value.  

E.g., I can write something about a sociological topic, but, because I know Noorah — I can now see how she can see the topic, how she conceives the imbrication of different topics, without her necessarily being in the room.

Going back to the implementation level of things: it’s possible to relate things between one slipbox and another.

We did talk about permissions, we could talk about having access to "notes level 1 or 2 or 3".  Requires some hygiene.  But if this is something people care about and that people use... then it is within the realm of what people use, it’s a way of going from the individual to the collective, that’s technologically backed, and also rewarding.

The issue of ‘permissions’ is important, this is why I brought up Orcid — you’d have a permanent ID, and you could give permission to share the things.  This is where 1+1=3...!  

An easy step would be starting with people who you actually know — the ‘outreach’ could come after ‘output’ phase.

Permissions and attracting other people reminds Ray of what we had going on PlanetMath... 

Now that other people have been pushing in this area, PlanetMath ideas are still relevant (to other people?) — maybe reinvesting some of the ‘soul’ of PlanetMath...

But also the PlanetMath community, philosophy, how we met in the first place.

LV: Less interested in “how to create something for others to see” — leave outreachu to communities like Reddit or something like this?

- We do have abilities to do R, elisp, and so on...

- This is a huge difference from the way things were in October, when we were trying to do all the things that we aren’t trying to do now.

- Leo: I’ve been influencing the direction of where this has been going b/c I’ve been thinking about trying to make a living doing this stuff, mapping this space of new skills... now maybe the need for a ‘research project’ or an ‘output’ has been tabled rather than erased.

- Now we’re looking for enablement... 

Rather than saying that we lost track of outputs, we’re now a little more rational about what we can achieve; we’ve been discussing in a way that’s productive; the fact that we’re still there is a long/dense track record and we’re still feeling inspired.

- LV: probably wouldn’t be heading into the crowdfunding campaign...

With these kinds of ‘backup’ ops we start with the real needs that people have (e.g., Leo’s crowdfunding campaign, Ray and Cameron’s coding needs, Noorah’s thesis writing)

* EmacsConf use case

We had all the videos split out; we are also able to extract time codes from BBB chat. I can write "Whoops, -5".  There’s a tag, so that 2 hours after the recording has been done with BBB we can slice the video and release it to the public.  With what we’re doing with the ERG meetings, if we were to assume a kind of back-office role, we could have those meetings then OPEN.  The first part being the chat, the second part being the research progress on topics.  If ERG was going to take a role where were expert users, there would be a lot of value of publishing the recordings... both for Leo, and for someone who is in the spotlight in the community.  The symbiotic..

Ray has been typing into Logseq while we are going, there’s a little project to improve it...

For Noorah, I do get a lot out of these meetings as a way to think about things, from a shelfish perspective it’s a place to take a break from my research!  And to switch to something else that I enjoy!  I don’t know how to materialise it: I am interested in building the system, collaborative networks, collaborative processes, that’s something I’m very interested in.  And Emacs is a great place to prototype ideas.

Keeping things based on impact and output. We struck a nice balance w/ input/output; also had a lot of high-level discussions about what collaboration in Org Roam would be.

Now it feels like we could back to having people over, as we did before!  Based on what David and Noorah did, we may need to implement an idea of co-development / co-creation that’s more grounded into the practical stuff.  Trying to figure out how we bring to life the collaborative slip box.

If in 2 months I’m financed with my kickstarter, I can see how much work I can put into this.  If we had a tag-up meeting that we can try out, just having this pattern of actualising the vision that we’ve been discussing...

Maybe the tension has been the high-level & the practical

RSP: I’m very interested in the things you’re saying about Org Roam; right now I’m using the tools I have, but later this year I’ll be working on the hypernotebooks.  Right now I’m busy getting the math and physics done, but later this year planning to be getting back to programming and setting up the computer and so on. If I hear a little bit every week I have time to let it sink in, and prepare for when I do get back to it.

So, not an idea of moving 80% to practical stuff, but having a slow-cooking thing.  It might not be serendipity if we’re intending — maybe it’s a metal detector — but if we try using the software and looking for improvement, we can share it on YouTube ... it can connect people.  This is probably the right way to do it

Mini Emacs-Rocks?

5 minute lightning talks?

* crdt feature-requests

- Ways to act on the view-port
  - Asking for focus
  - Keybinding that can switch us to the next person
  - instead of having to switch to the buffer
  - Modeline indicator

* rel. with OGM
- OGMConf?
- Fee?

* org-roam feature-requests
- collaborative slip-boes & org-roam-server
  - Thinking with intersections / Venn diagrams
- Test-driven, relate to implementations, relate to other

* PAR                                                                   :10m:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:
*** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- We wanted to have laid back chat rather than a minuted meeting this time
- This helped to tie this in to some of the topics that we talked about during the week
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- The way we’ve used the PAR has evolved with the months, and it seems we’re getting more value out of them now; we’ve refined our method.
- This casual way of talking helped us digest things a little more slowly
- This was almost an ‘Agile restrospective’
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- We wanted to know if things like the index project had to do with our projects — we got some value out of it; if we don’t do that, we can get torn apart and all the ideas don’t fit, whereas if you have an idea of they fit into a bigger thing it’s easier to make progress
- If 3 weeks out of the 4 we are focusing on a blue-print (keeping in mind that I’m not an architect) — in the 4th there’s also the opportunity to step back
- If we don’t have that, we get lost
- Joe liked bringing in a Deleuze quote; and connecting to an idea of an 8-handed composition
- Leo regrets that we are currently only have 4 people on board; Cameron will be back sometime
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
- We liked this a lot
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- We could come up with a pseudo-Agile retro after the CLA to have unstructured discussions like we’ve had today
- We need to address the gender balance sometime
- We should be thinking about other guests

* Check-out (exceptional or not)

** JC
- Happy
** NA
- Two thumbs up
** RSP
- Later
** LV
- Tired, but happy

