#+TITLE: 19 June 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-06-19 Sat>

* 19 June 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                             :20m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   0:20
:END:
** Leo
- Has been rushing and coming into frustrating, single-point-of-failures issues with BBB
- The broader checkin: people expect you to have nice things to report not tech frustrations!  I returned 2h30 ago.  Came a bit early for this almost-ad-hoc checkout session.  Happy to be back and happy to have had some time off during the holiday, where I’ve let my mind wander across the rocks and sand; I feel rested despite the immediate frustrations
- Ready to make some changes in the way I work, and tomorrow I will go back swimming!  ERG has just pushed this off one more day (for seven-months-and-a-day total)
- There’s also a thunderstorm outside!
** Joe
- Feeling well (had a nice cup of matcha tea)
** Ray
- Paper’s due 24th of June, you’re all welcome to join; let’s organise meetings for the week, I’m willing to put time in now; in 2 weeks they’ll put in some time
- Over the next month or so, this paper, other research interests; may want to leave ERG things on the shelf, do want to plan things for the fall
- E.g., working with hypernotebooks, a code tracer, and some other things — will want input and connections w/ others as coding and integration develops
- Partly in connection with the paper, the usefulness of interaction with Peeragogy; we talked a lot about Org Roam & Zettlekasten stuff, so practicalities of e.g. having a notebook that is separate from the draft of what you’re working on.  Would love to set up a “collaborative notebook/ZK for peeragogy and elsewhere” — maybe discuss this in 2nd phase of the meeting
** Noorah
- Did take a look at the Google Docs paper, not sure how much I contributed — did I earn my name on it?
- I have been busy working on my dissertation and packing for travel
- Haven’t thought through Emacs for fall but: getting up to date with packages on Emacs would be something I want to do, have still been using things from the last 6 months, getting a refresher on what’s going on out there
- Still want to work on a collaborative slip-box as a Venn intersection between different slip boxes!  Would be nice to think through the implications.
- The way we’re doing things with CRDT is really cool, but depends on a note-taker at the meetings; but even working individually and how we can learn through

* Things to keep in mind
** Goal for today — extended checkout of Season 1
- Thinking about projects
** Record the sodding session (not today, because we’re on Discord)

* Agenda                                                                :80m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   1:20
:END:

** Technical aspect of working together                                :30m:
- Happy we called this the ending of Season 0
- CLA is a testament to the energy that’s gone into our collaboration
- But we might have been able to do more if we had the tools of collaboration that we’ve discussed
  - If I was to make a list:
*** Collaborative slip boxes for a collection of notes
#+CAPTION: Two types of collaboration workflows, illustrated
#+NAME:   fig:leo-collab-types
[[http://metameso.org/~joe/leo-collab-types.png]]
- Ability to publish notes and work on those notes together
- Submodule 1: Issues of authorship, conflict resolution, how to sync the database
- Submodule 2: Ability to do these things “live” — we need to come up with a technical solution to traverse nodes together, rather than just traversing single nodes together (sharing an entire slipbox via CRDT)
**** Biggest component of what I plan to be doing this summer
- It’s easy to make it dumb, harder to make it intelligent...
- RSP: It would be nice to have, even async would be interesting+valuable
- On 1: we have to work on how syncing works.  We have discussed many solutions (e.g., tracking commits via Git) 
  - “These lines were written by JC, NA, etc.”
  - ORv2 is different from ORv1, we only have =id= links
  - This opens interesting themes for collaboration
- One understanding, I.e., if you’re putting all your notes into one slip box...
  - You could say: “I only want to share notes that are tagged erg.”
  - That would be interesting b/c it would allow you to have some shared things
  - “One thing with contents from many people.”
- How we conceive collaboration: is it sharing individual notes, or the the elaboration of notes together?
- NA: Two situations, one doable, one tricky
  - If we’re working asynchronously, we solve it with Git commits
  - But if we’re doing something at the same time, this is when it gets tricky.
  - Maybe my contribution is just me thinking out loud and then Joe is writing it down — if Joe commits it looks like it’s his work!
- JC: underlining, colour?
- RSP: who actually contributed the research that’s being presented there!
**** Type 1
- Sharing notes out of individual ZKs and aggregating them
**** Type 2
- People all working on a single node inside the file
**** SO...
- we need a way to articulate these two
- If there’s something in Type 1, can we convert it to Type 2?
- Is this something you should desire?  Should this be something that’s locked?
- If you want to edit one of these things, do you create a link and work there?
**** Joe’s view
- Type 1 slows everything down; Type 2 is probably what we should focus on
**** Ray’s view:
- A third ring is to bring back some specific PlanetMath things
- E.g., Peeragogy started as a spin off
- Some of these things are successors to Planetary
- Discussions with Aaron about PlanetMath back in scope
- We’ve been talking about everyone having their own ZKs, but what about  projects?  If I have a project, this is where I keep the notes for this!
  - I might populate it with notes I have sitting around, I might have a way to sync, who knows; but when we work on this project we will keep our notes there.
- STANDARD PRACTICE: We usually have a shared draft and everything gets overburdened and it isn’t meant for that.
  - If you think what ZK is supposed to bring into the situation, you’re creating your own notes — as you’re perusing sources, you write, and then things can be reused as needed
  - If we start thinking of a collective slipbox in a collaborative fashion, then we lose a link between your project activities and the individual cathedrals
**** Leo’s view
- I want something for us to work with... if we forget Type 1 and focus on Type 2, if we’re all working with our own contents...
- If we’re only working with Type 1 stuff, then there’s no co-creation
- No sense of bringing things that you have from elsewhere into the room
- If there’s a metal detector and you put all your baggage on the side
**** Joe’s response
- It’s all a matter of perspective; at the end of the day, we’re going to make everything work together
- We’d even have changes for a single user, e.g., everything tagged ERG
**** Noorah’s response
- The other side of the argument is that it limits transdisciplinarity: I want to bring something in from a different discipline, if I’m stuck in the project slipbox, I have to import things.
- RSP: You’re free to bring in the other ones and link it, e.g., I won’t bring in every note on bio
- NA: for me the project-minded thing is the INTERSECTION I’m talking about, the intersection that we all work in — that’s the project
- LV: It’s interesting that you mentioned interface — or link — “you could link back to those notes outside of the project — but you’re the one who decides whether you make the links.
  - It’s funny you mentioned you can link to or from it — if you can do that you’re already inside it.  It follows a model of colonisation, how to colonise different folders.
- RSP: My practical stance: I agree with all of these things; but even if it has all of these problems, what’s the improvements over one single google doc.  An incremental improvement over what we have now.
**** Some synthesis
- If I have 2 months to bring this in to the world, I can make technological high-art — right now I’m more enthusiastic about the high-art
- JC: Also, keep the ‘incremental’, ‘holistic’, ‘developer’, ‘user’ modes of thinking in mind as we think about DESIGN
**** Summing up
- LV: We do have a “collaborative slip box” at the psychic level!
- All told I will be working on this
  - I’ll be thinking in July
  - I’d like to do a small presentation; does this cover the feature set half way through — it could also be something I record and submit to you to watch
    - NA: I will be more available because of the time zone
    - RSP: Of course!  Similar to the “working vacation”
    - LV: though I do want us to worry about this...? 
       - We did also want to get some head space!
  - Some might be done with half-step measures, and want to reach for Season 1 the beginning of tools
- I didn’t get to talk about a place to keep the todos for a project!
- None of it will be too complicated, but the Type1/Type2 stuff will be complicated
- Some things would be easiers than others (e.g., interface with CRDT??)
- But project related TODOs seem complicated, and there’s a lot of stuff to think about
- I’d like to have milestones in the calendar about this — but I’d also like to come back to financing Org Roam, and a milestone based thing would likely work!
- It will be a busy month of July 
- Moving to: https://meet.jit.si/peeragogy 
** Check-in with Charlotte                                             :10m:
- Hive editing is in session
- Hi from Joe...
- Hi from Leo!
- Hi it's me Noorah!!
  - BUT we don’t have a link for you to get on this doc for hive editing!
  - Maybe in 6 months we’ll have an obvious working solution
*** Charlotte
- Let’s drill through the steel barrier!
- The attraction of hive editing is great
- It will override 
*** With Peeragogy

** Peeragogy ERG mash up paper in draft                                :45m:

** Plan next step move for PLoP                                        :10m:
  - Ray: I’m available next week; also there will be the big shepherding thing in 2 weeks after the deadline
  - Leo: I’ve scheduled 2 hour review on Monday, Tuesday onwards is better
  - Noorah: next week is difficult but I’ll assign myself the discussion section and write notes to see if something makes sense there
  - Deadline for 24th
    - We don’t have a specific todo list yet!
    - In the Google doc there were some awkward phrasings and typos, follow Charlotte’s notes to fix
    - CP: I don’t need authorship, but can contribute some text about the need for an agent
  - Monday: Joe has another paper due
    - Don’t use the coffee chat for this, b/c we have VAMIPIRISED the coffee chat to work on this
    - Make a clear split, e.g., 30 minutes before or after?
    - Ray and Joe meet 6PM UK time
    - Preview podcast meeting on Monday
  - Tuesday: 
    - 5:30PM UK meet with Leo on Discord
  - Wednesday: 
    - 7:30PM UK meet with everyone on BBB (Jitsi as fallback)
    - TIME: 11:45 East Coast = podcast
** Extra
We agreed to extend today’s meeting today to have a proper check-out for the check-out session.

* PAR                                                                   :15m:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:
*** 1. Review the intention: what did we expect to learn or make together?
- ERG Peeragogy mashup call to discuss paper for PLoP
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- On Jitsi with Charlotte and Vitor as well as the ERG regulars
- ERG people met for 1 hour on Discord previously, after some last-minute hiccups
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- CP: I’m happy you’re doing this for PLoP and keeping that relationship alive
  - Newbie perspective!
- Ray: Also, we have the peeragogy and ERG relationship that is ongoing and will hopefully continue
- Joe: more practical for us, and more practical for other people via the newbie perspective on the paper
- This is our last session for a while, so let’s add 5 minutes to the end
- It’s great to have someone like Leo who is aware of the timing generously helping us meet our time frame!
- This is an example of an agent! — Otherwise you won’t have people absorb the wisdom
- CP: We do a par at the end, but what about doing it before?
  - Ray: that came up with Joe, but at the end it should be what you were saying
  - The PAR should help with planning!
  - We could do a PAR for Season 1 — maybe this would the “pilot” of Season 1!
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
- Charlotte suggested more practical perspectives, making the bridge to the group you’re trying to help
- Diversity; Noorah was talking about the Utility of CLA when they have multiple meetings, going back to the meetings — going — different vocabularies can make lack of cohesion or even conflict — transdisciplinarity came up
- LV: this feels related to methodology, like, how to “lower the bridge to get people inside” — defining the taxonomy, explaiing it, making people get the click for the vocabulary is essential.
- Reminds me of Andy Matuschak, which is a taxonomy of notes: fleeting notes, things you take off the top of your mind, ever-green notes, things you use as a concept is other notes — this kind of approach to sharing and cementing knowledge...
- I was talking about clicks with regard to programming... but for peer learning this also can create clicks!  “Evergreen” notes
  - CP: Oh, the ah-ha moment!
  - How do you lead people through a bunch of aha moments...
  - Like when slaloming through doors on skis, to get through A B C quickly... now in 4D
- The flow-zone where you know your tools well enough to implement them without thinking.  There are 1 mil things per stroke... but putting them together
- Maybe this is also about /encoding patterns/ — your brain is fitted to see patterns in the world and put concepts behind them.  When you regress from this point and assimilate it... ‘groking’... you’re after the click!
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- How can we use this with a rowing club, or a group of people in Brazil... 400 people at Brookes applying for grants!
- Be more pro-active so we don’t get behind deadlines!  How can we gather up what we’ve done but not being behind an 8-ball where we are rushing to do things w/o developing them...
  - This is methodological and technological problem — I use the technology myself, this is another reason to get behind the steel wall
  - A lot of this is about attitude and planning; giving yourself enough extra room.
  - LV: the problem is that you’ve been pro-active, but we have not been proactive — linking the desire to organise with the ability to organise.  When we go back to the PILOT.
- Network is probably an advantage here


* Check-out                                                              :5m:
- LV: happy about this session, on break, happy we met 8 days ago and convened — also very happy with the breezy fan that Joe suggested!  I collected some nice things on the beach.
- JC: Wanted to repromote his cloud-water-soda (?), then will have to go to the toilet!
- CP: I turned 65 yesterday and I wouldn’t have it any other way and wouldn’t want it any other way! Wouldn’t want to be any other way.  I’ll be rowing 1900 meters tomorrow for a Concept 2 competition.
  - LV: Is this in metric originally? (Yes.)
- NA: I enjoyed today’s meeting, it was so comprehensive, and a good closing for the holiday, gave me something to think about. I enjoyed using CLA, thinking about how to make it transferable in other contexts.
- RSP: Happy weekend, looking forward to seeing some of you on Monday.
- VB: Happy to be here
  - LV: Nice to meet you
  - JC: I was eating ENTREVERO? — see Zulip for a fix
