:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       fc5c107d-f10e-47c9-8a5b-8883636f681e
:END:
#+TITLE: 26 January 2023 ‚Äî Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2023-01-26 Thu>

* 26 January 2023  ‚Äî Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** General life check-ins
*** NA
- Up early with Susie üê± 
*** JC
- Took a walk this morning.
*** LV
- 
*** AT
- Slept good

* Meta points

** TODO Pre-PAR ‚Äî Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?

* Agenda (Part 1)                                                                
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Overview & feedback

*** Emotional feedback from us
- Moving back and forth between the different rooms went well, especially the moves between Cinema 2 and Watershed 3.
- Which part of the last preparations did we think were useful?
  - The degree to which we elaborated on the play-by-play allowed us to clarify what we were going to do and when we were going to do it.
  - It also allowed us to connect different part of the workshop through the day, both with the different teams and the different moments in the day.
- Was something missing?
  - Under pressure, we could put this workshop together, but AT might have appreciated an extra week to further iterate on the checklist.
  - The difference between using the words that JC had first proposed, and then articulating them with the roles/pieces that we used in Phase 2 was difficult.
  - The connection between context/problem/solution and the roles of Phase 2 was not satisfactory.
  - The explanations and prompts could have been clearer, although they should not be sanitized to the point of being clinical.
  - The workshop felt facilitator-heavy, i.e., that the conversations can get blocked fairly easily without a facilitator.


- Did things make sense?
- Were they obstacles we didn‚Äôt anticipate?

*** Anything that‚Äôs come in since the meeting

**** Judith and Frankie (who were already in the November pilot)
- Thought it was a great forum for discussion
- People noted informal exchange of contact details in the room (offshoots)
- Coherence of the workshop as a whole ‚Äòworked‚Äô
  - LV: I think this is the result of the extra preparation we‚Äôve done over the week-end right before the workshop
- Not overwhelming; it felt like this was the best method for this type of problem-resolution workshop.

**** Martin (landscape architect) @ BDP Bristol
- Was inspired, wanted slides, wanted another
- Had a conversation with Judith, and they made a connection (as we intended the workshop to do in its earliest formulation)

**** Pending feedback from PhD students
- 
**** Others

***** Questions
- Do we send feedback forms to partcipants?
- Do we follow up 1-1 with Bea?

***** Questions for later
- Should we look for more grants related to the British UKRI funding opportunity?
- How would we do the framing?
  - Bidding starts at ¬£200k and goes up to ¬£1.2m
  - Link: https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/ukri-cross-research-council-responsive-mode-pilot-scheme/


*** In room feedback (Joe & Abby)

- Moving between rooms worked well
- Last minute prep was ‚Äòthe right‚Äô prep
- But it also revealed things that could have been done that we might have done with more time
  - E.g., what does this look like?
  - Fitting together of certain constructs could have been more finessed
  - E.g., How do we interweave the index cards & roles, and text box?
    - Maybe one or two of these are superfluous

- Examples & interrelationships from Joe worked well
- Descriptions of tasks from Phase 1 to Phase 2 needed clearer prompts
  - To make it action-oriented for participants

- If facilitators aren‚Äôt helping guide the discussions around complex systems the discussions can become rather circular

- CPS format: "Solutions" having come from the myth layer can be overwhelming
  - E.g., you can be faced w/ socio-economics that you disagree with
  - LV: Maybe they don‚Äôt agree with the myth layer?
    - AT: No, I meant, how do you go from a deep rooted problem to solutions that seem really poor in comparison
      - E.g., ‚Äòcontested spaces for homelessness‚Äô: Austerity, social housing, systemic removal of government funding (&c.) ‚Äî these become difficult to fight against w/o appealing to things like protest.
      - LV: ‚ÄòProtest‚Äô sounds like an anti-pattern, because we say the society we live in is unacceptable, but actually the workshop has a more reformist programme
        - JC: Maybe the anarchism of self-funded park rangers (e.g.) is a good pattern, or maybe it‚Äôs actually an anti-pattern that hides in our assumptions?
          - LV: On of the roles could 

- LV: Regarding facilitator-heaviness: ultimately the goal is to impart a method of problem solving & reflection that people can eventually recover.  If the workshop leads to recovery of the method in another setting, we‚Äôve won!  Maybe the ‚Äòfacilitator-heaviness‚Äô is actually ‚Äòmethod-heaviness‚Äô.

   - Methods and tools tend to go together
   - This time, facilitators were doing things that tools could do.

**** Phase 1
- NA: They pick a route from Litany to Myth
  - Can they next revisit the path that causes the problems (from the worldview)?
  - Then, in the system level, what are the moving pieces that can address things?

- AT: At the end of Phase 1, they didn‚Äôt really have clear stories
  - This links to the facilitator burden; how can we practice that, using the resources across the layers... this would also make the lunchtime distillation process easier


*** Remote team feedback (Noorah & Leo)
- We were technically just being a machine, but in principle could be replaced by a tool and not trying to replicate people /in absentia/.
- In future, facilitators will be more of a high-level person in the group
  - E.g., if in Phase 1, people could directly create the map of meaning...
  - The role would still be to unblock discussions, e.g., "why can you not get a 3rd story in?"

- LV: Maybe we can ‚Äòtoolify‚Äô 40%
  - AT: part of the comment here is separate from the tool question, i.e., particpants are crucial ‚Äòtools‚Äô in the process b/c they are their own resources...
  - But, the burden felt heavy as "translation from CLA theory" to "what this looks like as a task in Phase 2" ‚Äî This is communication not tooling

- LV: One of our stretch goals was to make diagrams that would make things more grokable. 
  - JC: An example story or two maybe even better.

- LV: We need some formalism in terms of examples, checklist

- NA: Let‚Äôs keep in mind that everyone is at around an 8th-grade comprehension level.
  - JC: Because no one has training in ‚Äòthis‚Äô; even we aren‚Äôt yet at the experts level yet.
**** Experience report
- Converting mind maps from Phase 1 wasn‚Äôt difficult but there was a lot of nuance that we were missing b/c we weren‚Äôt present there.
  - So, it wasn‚Äôt easy to think about "How was it linked to node X or Y"
  - There were only a few things that we were able to comprehend
  - If it‚Äôs remote it may need to be completely remote, w/ even the participants being remote; we can all facilitate simultaneously, get data in real time, etc.

- In Phase 2, we didn‚Äôt get a lot of feedback 

- LV: I don‚Äôt agree that having Joe doing Emacs stuff would be a good idea, it would have just overloaded you even more; it would have helped us in the back

***** LV: we didn‚Äôt have enough data 
- we didn‚Äôt achieve much of what we intended to do
- Tech solutions could have made it easier to grok what was going on!
- Much of what we did do was based on the mid-day debrief!
- We didn‚Äôt understand things like ‚Äòturbo-island‚Äô

*** Improvements based on this
- Needs some trimming/tuning that specify the points

*** Team overview

**** Workshop specific: a thing that went well, a thing that could‚Äôve gone better, a thing that would change
***** NA
***** JC
***** LV
***** AT

** Outputs & Analyses

NA: What do we need to report back to the funders?

*** What are the key outputs and associated analyses
- Demonstrating that it took place
- Demonstrating that it was a collaboration between different expertise
  - i-docs
  - free software
  - peer learning
  - facilitation

- For Abby: To demonstrate good use of internal funds, the outputs should be readily re-usable for grant applications
  - An overview of what the workshop is, summarising the methodology as a whole
  - Makes it clear that we‚Äôve created something that‚Äôs usable and reproducible in many different fields

- More fine-grained:
  - What was discussed with regard to public space and public health?
  - What does it mean?
  - Can we analyse the qualitative data, the tech data?
  - How rich was the methodology in terms of creating usable things?

NA: We can say more after we hear the recordings... we could use a transcription app to help with this
- We can start tagging, analysing
- There are roughly 9 hours of content, to listen/read would take a lot of time for not a lot of production.
- So, how do we split the work?  In principle, we could leave the in-the-room-based research to Joe and Abby.

*** Who is doing what?
*** Target deadlines

** Where we‚Äôve got to & where we are going.

*** Taking stock of the project
*** What next?

Hi!  We had a quick debrief after you were gone Noorah, and we‚Äôd like to have a meeting on Thursday 2:30pm GMT to gather our feedback on how the workshop went.  Judith said she‚Äôd like to come if she‚Äôs available

** Plan for the coming days

*** Today
During this meeting, if we assume the slip-box to be 70% of the analysis, I‚Äôd also like to get everyone‚Äôs opinion on what should the last 30% be.

*** This weekend
We‚Äôll also have ERG on Saturday with the following agenda: 1) finishing the technical translation of the content from the workshop with Joe‚Äôs and Abby‚Äôs help; 2) select people to wrap up the last 30% and formally deliver it; and 3) create an itemized bill for what was done in this last month and submit it to Abby‚Äôs institution

* BREAK                                                                 
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

* Agenda (Part 2)                                                                
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

* PAR                                                                   
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:


*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?

*** 3. What did we learn or change?

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?


* Tentative agenda for next week


* Check-out                                                              
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA

** JC

** LV
