:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       8fa9fd2e-0329-47ea-afe2-57269941e227
:END:
#+TITLE: 07 January 2023 ‚Äî Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2023-01-07 Sat>

* 07 January 2023  ‚Äî Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** NA
- In Dubai, and it‚Äôs a bit late there!  But, up for 1h30 session as usual for a break.
  - JC: Reminding of Zoo Eyes by Aldous Harding ‚ÄúWhat am I doing in Dubai?‚Äù

** JC
- Purchased a mandola to complement bass
- Aubergine plant did not survive; must try again later.

** LV
- Application to Princeton completed 
- Slicing veggies as usual
- Emacs + server hasn‚Äôt been restarted for 28 days

* Meta points

** Meetings

- Abby couldn‚Äôt make it today but would like to talk during the week if possible
- 2PM except Tuesday or Friday would be good

** Event placeholder circulated: Mon, 23 January 2023, 10:00 ‚Äì 15:30 GMT

- 2 weeks from Monday hence

- https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/public-space-for-public-health-a-call-to-action-tickets-492522286417

This is a way to keep track of who is attending.

- 09Ôªø30-1000. Arrival, tea and coffee (Waterside 2)
- 1Ôªø000-1030. Media screening (Cinema 3)
- 1Ôªø030-1230. Session 1: experts to citizens (Waterside 2)
- 1Ôªø230-1330. Lunch (provided)
- 1Ôªø330-1500. Session 2: citizens to action (Waterside 2)
- 1Ôªø500-1530. Review and close (Cinema 3)
- 1Ôªø530-1700. Reception (Watershed bar)

** TODO Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:

** TODO Pre-PAR ‚Äî Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?

* Agenda (Part 1) - Reflections on life since we last met.
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Joe: Reflections on social dynamics
- Articulation of ERG + Abby
- Difficulties ping-ponging between different spheres in a Venn diagram was tricky for everyone; maybe especially for Joe as a liaison
- What do we all bring?  E.g.:
  - Inclusive perspective, filter for what‚Äôs doable+valuable, in-betweeners, rigour, interest in what we‚Äôre doing (i.e., interest in the methods), interest in acquiring/expanding/replicating the methods.

** Noorah: Reflecting on the workshop, and a sense of guilt about not being as present as I would have liked

- How can we help w/ this?
- Communication: e.g., Feeling I‚Äôm missing out in meetings w/ Abby and asking for a catch up.
- LV: What‚Äôs the positive version of this?  LV+NA both wanted to be more involved in the project, then Noorah came up with a plan of what we needed to do during the project.  Then we used this as the skeleton guide of how to do the workshop, and Abby was pleased w/ this and able to contribute.
- So responsibility + time aren‚Äôt necessarily correlated, we knew we‚Äôd be running out of money and working more than we intended to.
- The sneaky thing about frustration is that it can accumulate w/o a strong clue about what causes it. 
- Though, we did come up with a plan, communicate reasonable restructuring (time + dynamics w/ Slipbox plan)
- We have notes & todo file of everything we want to do...
- And we‚Äôve been pretty busy in the meantime ‚Äî let‚Äôs start January w/ a stance of using the worries to be efficient in what we do!
- Maybe we can decide that every December is going to be shit & we can be kind to ourselves
- JC: Can I help you do the pattern analysis of the workshop this time?

*** Now I have two cats 
- The two 8-months-old cats bonded in the shelter
- Suzieüê± is bonded w/ her brother Andyüê±
  - She‚Äôs super energetic

** Leo: We need to be on the ball w/ communication

- It would be good if in coming weeks if we need to invite her, someone does it right after we agree it
- How much can we take on w/ the tech for this time?  LV decided to take on the (potentially) difficult tech conversations so that 
- Main goal here is to keep it fun through the next few weeks.

*** Princeton stuff
- Find out at the end of January if he‚Äôll be invited for an on-campus week (to happen in March, with final info in April)
- LV was able to make the proposal about how literature & computing can conciliate

*** Other stuff
- Unexpected car repairs led to ditching the car at parents‚Äô
- Life is now the same as before but w/ fewer keys

* BREAK                                                                 
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

- Rev Allison coincidentally returned just now
- Git/Magit : Absorb?  Merges a branch and deletes the former branch.

* Agenda (Part 2) - Next steps, who does what.
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

** Recap of what we talked about in December
- Refresh on roles /during/ the workshop
- We changed things so:
  - JC+AT are there, 15-25 participants will be managed in the room
  - NA+LV will be behind the scenes, e.g., making mind maps, putting stuff into Org Roam, will have plenty of time to do this
- We discussed /recording/; will think about how to deal w/ this, how to analyse the data.

** Any concerns at this point?

- How to ensure communication from the groups?
  - E.g., text-box on phone?
- Is the workshop itself the deliverable?  Or WS+mindmap showing the map + ability to make comments
  - Ability to keep track of TODOs?
- But this isn‚Äôt quite the most effective way into Phase III.
- Is reporting on the workshop enough.
  - JC: Reporting should be good enough.  Even if the reporting isn‚Äôt too automated yet, but our technological report will broach on this.
- E.g., comparing it with =sickboi= ‚Äî we slightly altered the deliverables, but the methods will still be there
- The tech stuff that we can automatise is a net bonus

** Outline of days & actions upcoming

*** Parameters to keep in mind
  - We meet with AT every week.
  - We need to have one ERG session per week, even if it doesn‚Äôt happen on a Saturday
  - Technology-wise, we need to have LV present tooling to everyone sufficiently early for them to understand how use the tools they‚Äôll need.
  - We need to finish writing the report for end-of-January (so that it fits within the grant)
  - We need to send *a quote* for the last bit of money before end-of-January
  - AT & JC (+ Judith?): Find a way to record participants in groups.  We talked about dictaphones which should be available in the venue.
  - Liaising with the documentary team

*** Timeline up to the workshop

- Saturday    7 January 2023

- Sunday      8 January 2023

- Monday      9 January 2023 W02

- Tuesday    10 January 2023

- Wednesday  11 January 2023 ‚Äî *AT* within 1500-1800 (but just 1h30)
  - Check out the *recording facilities*
  - Ask about documentary team involvement
  - anything else ...

- Thursday   12 January 2023 

- Friday     13 January 2023

- Saturday   14 January 2023
  - *JC + LV*: look at tech stuff at 15:00 UK

- Sunday     15 January 2023

- Monday     16 January 2023 W03
  - NA is free all day
  - LV and NA work together for the analysis, developing an *analysis protocol*
  - Come up with *consent forms*

- Tuesday    17 January 2023

- Wednesday  18 January 2023 ‚Äî *AT* within 1430-1600 (but just 1h30; starting early because NA has her work).
  - LV: Delivery for tech, potential feature-freeze.
  - Draft *itemized bill* and send to Abby.
  - Testing of the tech to make sure that everyone groks the stuff that they need to use 

- Thursday   19 January 2023
  - (stetch-goal) LV: Working on diagrams to help people get phase 1 & phase 2 in the introduction

- Friday     20 January 2023 

- Saturday   21 January 2023
  - *Joe will go to Bristol for the weekend*
  - *Meeting with everyone*, Abby + Joe in-person

- Sunday     22 January 2023

- Monday     23 January 2023 W04
  - *Run the workshop*

#+begin_quote
- 09Ôªø30-1000. Arrival, tea and coffee (Waterside 3)
- 1Ôªø000-1030. Media screening (Cinema 2)
- 1Ôªø030-1230. Session 1: experts to citizens (Waterside 3).  This is about context, stripping expertise, going to the root myth.
  - Introduce the workshop theme and core question using *slides* [AT]
  - Introduce the workshop format using *slides* [JC]
    - In short, if the problem could be solved by individuals using standard methods it probably would have been done already.
  - _1145_: LV is available and we begin a process of condensing what was done in phase 1
  - Distil everything into one *overall map*
- 1Ôªø230-1330. Lunch (provided)
  - Working lunch for facilitators, so have a *premade lunch*
  - Finalise distillation of map
  - Walk through map with Noorah from _1300_
  - Ensure that we have people only as citizens, not as experts; they have reached a ‚Äòcentered point‚Äô in which everyone is harmonized.
- 1Ôªø330-1500. Session 2: citizens to action (Waterside 3).  We want to generate patterns with some degree of mobility from the original context.
  - Joe to provide some =HOWEVER= =BECAUSE= =THEREFORE= =SPECIFICALLY= *cards* and show how to use them
  - Participants continue to work in small groups to explore scenarios that explore the original problems, and come up with *coherent next steps*
  - Introduce *the Lounge* tool for Phase 2
  - Pictures of these can become *proto-patterns*, see example below; these are the prismatic reflections of the original problem AT presented
    - With given proto-patterns, ‚ÄòHowever‚Äô means a bridge between contexts
  - Leo and Noorah work in the background to turn patterns into a *pattern language*
- 1Ôªø500-1530. Review and close (Cinema 2)
  - Screenshare Org-Roam-UI with basic patterns in it; as a prototype, can we view the central problem as the apex of a double cone of problems?
  - We want them to understand that this problem is related to a whole *array of problems* (things this is not, but things it is adjacent to); this will contribute to motivating the participants because they‚Äôll realise they have new superpowers.
    - Who else do they need to talk to?
  - Not only are they harmonized (from Phase I, they are also somewhat unblocked)
- 1Ôªø530-1700. Reception (Watershed bar)
#+end_quote

E.g. proto-pattern: (TBA).
- Progression from HOWEVER ‚Üí BECAUSE ‚Üí THEREFORE ‚Üí SPECIFICALLY

#+begin_quote
TRANSFER CONTROL TO PARTICIPANTS v1

We come into the workshop expecting to be facilitators HOWEVER we look
for opportunities whenever participants are taking a lead in the
conversation, identifying problems, drawing mindmaps, etc., and help
them practice these skills.

BECAUSE the workshop is designed to build skills and connections that
are put into practice later, and we only have a short period to work
with, we should highlight the skills that participants are bringing to
the table.

A typical pattern in coaching is to build from the participants‚Äô
strengths, THEREFORE we need to identify those strengths within the
workshop.

SPECIFICALLY, in the Anticipation pilot, participants were willing to
take charge of making mindmaps early on.

=TRANSFER CONTROL TO PARTICIPANTS v2=

facilitators [HOWEVER] participant leadership
[BECAUSE] we don‚Äôt have much time
build from strengths [THEREFORE] identify strengths
[SPECIFICALLY] participants make maps
#+end_quote

- Monday     30 January 2023 W05 Finish analysis

- Tuesday    31 January 2023
  - Delivery of the analysis

#+begin_quote
- Why is this the method that builds itself?
#+end_quote

Notes from meeting with Abby on [2023-01-11 Wed]
- AT: Some community tech might be joining as well, yay!
- JC: /Linguistics/ roles

*** After the workshop

- (Another week to analyse and deliver post-workshop.)
- LV may be out of the loop in first week in February

**** Make the analysis method replicable

For next time.

**** Make sure we deliver something approximating the original spec

#+begin_quote
Federated Wiki development, pattern Language specialists, data processing.
#+end_quote

* PAR                                                                   
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:

*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?

- Back after a break
- Keeping it informal at first & raising concerns
- Flip the concerns into positives & plans

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?

- NA: Appreciate the flip technique
- JC: Appreciate Venn diagram discussion recap

- Balance 15 minute check-in & rigour

*** 3. What did we learn or change?

Productive

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?

- LV: Be on the ball with communication so that we don‚Äôt waste time and generate frustration.
- <<Explore use of more elaborate templates for specific needs in future>>

* Tentative agenda for next week

- JC: Arrange meeting for Wednesday during the week

* Tentative agenda for after January

- Explore use of more elaborate templates for specific needs in future (was something we discussed pointing users to)

* Check-out                                                              
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Going off to hang out

** JC
- Not crashing yet, planning to join family call
- Keep it simple, probably no social plans for today

** LV
- Gonna cook dinner now.
