:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       022de421-7fcd-42f8-bd7a-70b02ba33bb2
:END:
#+title: Meeting with Abby [2022-10-13 Thu]

* Agenda

** On the workshops

- *Who* do we want to invite
- *What* do we want to achieve?
  - JC has a couple of ideas from his notes
- Abby will provide list and blurb
- Aiming for 8 per pilot
- Joe can add a few people potentially

** JC’s update on the workshop-document (esp. future)

- NA: Do these pattern descriptions work for Abby?
  - e.g., is this "disorder" the right one?

*** Tech reflection
- The periphery of unlinked nodes could be useful for perturbing the core.  We want some software that can help order ideas, but also to have the potential for ‘dis’-ordering the landscape.
- It’s related to the idea of different people putting in different content; we don’t want to condense too much on a solution.
- The tech support can either produce more disorder or less.
- You should be able to keep the ordered hierarchical structures, but break them down in another workspace or such.
- NA: The conditions you add to the constellation should be analysed by humans
  - Periphery should be analysed by humans
  - Sense-making should be left to humans
  - We’re not expecting the system to be "intelligent"
- AT: How do things like *Instagram*, Twitter, etc., end up /narrowing/ the content that we’re exposed to?
  - How to have something that shuffles the landscape so that it’s uncertain?

** "If we remove this pattern from the context in which it was generated, does it still produce insights?"
- We shuffle around the cards, then try to make sense of the cards.
  - JC: Relates to reproducibility of research.  In some cases the pattern might be very productive in a new data context.
- JC: Every contribution should be enhancing the discourse; if they’re not, we may want to prune them.  I have a little  difficulty wrapping my head around the social contract.
  - Natural contract a bit hard to wrap my head around in the fully general context, but it can work at the level of the workshop.
** What are the key functions of the computer stuff?
- We won’t have enough data at the 1st pilot proto-workshop, but we can start to reflect on the best ways to implement the systems.
- Imagine parallels: workflow progressing on both methods and tools.
  - So far we’ve been working on the methods; let’s work towards designing the key functions of the tools.
** AT: "Connecting people and places: how communities use tech"
- [[https://www.powertochange.org.uk/][Power to Change]] company has a fund (gov’t lottery); a community-tech fund of up to 10 X £40K to support (with rapid turn-around time)
- Can we pitch what we want to create as the tool there?
- It supports charities and community interest companies; it needs to be written into the pro forma that they aren’t for shareholder profits
- What does Leo want to do through the platform?
- 4th of Nov is right around the corner, but if we need to crunch on this, it might be tough for Leo.
- JC + AT to write up the project on this, Leo could read the draft; "How do you see change through tech"
- Tech will be the guarantor that the things we’re doing is repeatable
- Depending on when the results of the funding are shared... December... this can stay online.

** Finance
- January timeline informally OK’ed
- Joe advised to bill for the money that’s in there for the next lot of money
- We’ll do the same for Leo-specific work for time up to December
 - 2.6K invoice both times (the one for asap and the one for LV on December), full amount

** Back to JC’s questions on the /who/ for the workshop
- JC: When would it be best to have Florian and Judith for the workshop?  ASAP for a proto workshop, or later for the big one?
  - AT: Hope that they will be in both;

** Pursuing grant with Judith (and possibly Florian)
  - plan is to apply for a small project grant with Judith (£10K)

** Going forward
- We should probably do a better job of differentiating the two parts of the technology, i.e. methods and tools

** Calendar
All times UTC
| <2022-10-15 Sat 14:00> | ERG w/ Abby but w/o Noorah                                         |
| <2022-10-20 Thu 13:30> | Weekly meeting with Abby                                           |
| <2022-10-27 Thu 13:30> | Weekly meeting with Abby                                           |
| <2022-10-29 Sat 14:00> | ERG working on the workshop with focus on tooling (esp. designing) |
| *<2022-11-02 Wed ??:??>* | Proto-workshop on tooling                                          |
| *<2022-11-03 Thu ??:??>* | Proto-workshop on community                                        |
| <2022-11-03 Thu ??:??> | Weekly meeting with Abby for debriefing                            |
| <2022-11-04 Fri ~~:~~> | Deadline for grant                                                 |

** PAR

**1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?**

- Catch up with Abby after 1st week
- Two fainters in separate groups who had their hands in freezing cold water
  - One hadn’t had breakfast

**2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?**

- "Community tech could be anything" — e.g., the hardware of community space
- This is a good fit for reproducible research

**3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?**

- Tech = methods and tools?

**4. What did we learn or change?**

- We should be applying the same kind of rigour to designing tech that we’ve been applying to methods
- Tools require us to look at 0’s and 1’s, whereas it’s relatively easy to talk about methods

**5. What else should we change going forward?**
- Abby coming along on Saturday, could spend the entire day working 
- Meet again next Thursday 14:30 and for the next 2-3 weeks
- Decide how long the proto-workshops are going to be!  1h? 2h? 3.5h?  Let’s say 10:30, break, reconvene after lunch.
  - We only had 40’ to do it at the anticipation thingy

** Next steps

- Abby: will start a draft of the proposal for power to change
- 1500 on Saturday

* Checkout

- Joe: meetings with peeragogy folks tomorrow for Anticipation prep; will check out requirements of company
- Leo: going back to work now

