#+TITLE: 10 April 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-04-10 Sat>

* 10 April 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                            :20m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   0:20
:END:
** Raymond
- Been reading a lot, esp. on /oral/ culture (practicing /aural skills/)
- Thought about writing: sometimes it’s difficult if I try to rush into a finished thing
- What about if I just write the notes and treat myself as an editor of those notes?
- In the end it’s a paper you hand in and get graded
** Noorah
- Noticed it’s hard for me to write, everything is in notes all over the place — I want to write paragraphs! But with my co-authors I’m great at editing their work.
- Everyone’s willing to help!
- Getting comfortable talking about my research
 - The ‘informal committee’ can help in a different way — they can help
** Leo
- When I was facing similar issues in terms of life organisation, I was thinking of life being a relay between different versions of yourself
- You have to make sure that future-you gets the best chance at managing stuff — tomorrow you can do whatever you want to ‘past you’
- This mindset puts enough distance between
 - "Write no matter what"
** Joe
- Has been writing 2pp by hand per day
- Same thing in the evening
- Clearly not scientific paper or scientific journal, but would be happy to share some of them... maybe buying a scanner?
- Debugged our interactions on Hyperreal this week

* Things to keep in mind
** Record the sodding session
** PAR from last time (transclusions would be nice, eh?)
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- New user on Noorah’s Windows machine called “Dissertation”
- User stories will be interesting to see (‘Black and White’)
- Bibliographies, demo of Dissertation user, a longer thing for next time
- Noorah will have time to prep this
- Joe could maybe do a little prep on the CLA paragraph
- Make a template, erg-push-button solution would be nice (20 minute job)
- Using it should bring joy, when compared with Git and Tramp etc.
- But how to anticipate how far
- Exciting to think about ‘the future of emacs, free software, citizen science’

* Agenda
** Interpersonal issues                                                :20m:
- JC reminded everyone of social issues around figuring out what’s suitable in our dialogues?
  - JC’s sister: ‘Let’s not make too many assumptions’
  - Conclusion: ‘Make it explicit, whatever it is.’

- How to e.g., catch people up to speed?
- NA Since we all have experience with note-taking, tools
  - We’re all comfortable with /writing/
  - Going from atomic ideas to molecular & cellular ideas!
  - This is something we all can share
- JC: But are we happy to talk about religious topics or sociology of film...?
  - We never agreed about these particular red lines (if any)

- JC: ‘I think the key thing in writing a PhD thesis is figuring out what you’re not writing about.’
  - This keeps you more focused!

- LV: Helping my friend write a portrait, to decide if the character will be a good fit
  - Rather than writing a portrait, this friend wrote an ‘inverted portrait’
  - All the stuff that he hadn’t read, all the stuff that he didn’t know
  - Very glorious, in French
  - Working what isn’t there sounds convenient, but there’s actual value of being on the offset

- RSP: regarding my own thesis, a lot was incomplete
  - I had the ideas but I didn’t have the methods and tools to take them further
  - Some of the tools I only found out 5 years ago, when I started working on biology!
  - Now, for me it was kind of satisfying to see the growth; 20 years ago, I didn’t know what to do besides writing it down and trying to bang it in w/ the tools at hand
  - Now, there’s a sense of accomplishment; and this was the beginning of my life as a researcher after all!

- JC: NA needs to build up on the fact that she is an excellent communicator
  - ‘How do you prepare for the next step when you’re not on a linear path?’
    - Related to LV/Foucault’s take on /equipment/!
    - Merit of these tools, skills
    - How to take the next step?
    - E.g., when we talked about the side-buffer/references to specific notes
    - It would be cool if this showed up as a way to search tags w/in the org roam buffer?
    - This is easy to implement

- RSP Thinking about ‘design requirements’ dialogues
  - NA’s thesis, PH, Ray’s notes — maybe we should start to have a discussion around design requirements for collaborative writing
  - Wanting to have a discussion that’s not too detail-oriented but also on broader issues
  - CFP for EmacsConf starting around July
  - What are other conferences that work on tools and research?
    - Ask ‘systemstheory‘ on YouTube
    - RGCS, communties, peeragogy
    - Meta-Research folks at Stanford, there was a symposium
  - The relationship between tools and research seems to be a wider issue than just Emacs
  - NA: I’ve been exposed to issues of ‘how do members talk to each other in terms of the tools they use’ — translations between software systems
  - RSP: We should focus on /the data/ — not just Open Source, but on /where the data goes/ — e.g., I have a directory full of plain text files
    - ... So, in this case I can use whatever software on them (data lifecycles)
    - Is there a real-time translator between the data formats?

- Logseq vs Org Roam from last week: we agreed that we had a directory of Org Roam files, and this is what we were interested in
  - Anyone can edit them with whatever tools

- JC: This is linked to Noorah’s enjoyment for /editing/
  - ‘Here’s the data; how do I tell a /story/ about this data?’
  - ‘Is there a way to trick yourself into being an editor from day one?’

- NA: I’ve opened a random Org Roam note and been positively surprised: I’ve already written that!

** Noorah’s presentation wrt her dissertation                          :20m:
- ‘The project box’ in /Write no matter what/ —
  - ‘The cleared deck fantasy’
  - Leo has 112 books about writing
  - ‘Patterns for college writing’ book
  - Could we look at this stuff to help our work with the text analysis, NNexus stuff, could you operationalise it?
  - So that the computer can do some of these things
  - David’s comment about AI in Emacs could apply again to getting this kind of intelligence in writing

- Motivation of not being distracted by Slack, Discord, a bunch of other things
- Every five minutes checking email or something else, it was driving me nuts
- Public, Noorah, Dissertations users
- The Dissertation user has Dropbox and only some specific folders
- And it only has a small number of software things installed
- Within Emacs only have searches that work with this
- Removed Org Gcal — things had filled up w/ things that weren’t relevant to the dissertation
- Emacs still takes a while to open... Eight-Megabytes and Constantly Swapping
- JC recommended creating links inside the one-paragrapher to the concepts
- ‘No export’
- Maybe org-special-blocks to bracket the things that are half-baked
- From Joe’s thesis, people were missing ‘EPHEMERAL’

*** Leo notes on the above

LV: development considerations for org-roam/org-mode

**** Features for org-roam:
1. Reverse ~org-roam-unlinked-references~ for all the words in a pagraph to be found inside the slip-box
2. Pluralisation of the meaning of links:
   - Green links for org-roam
   - User-defined rules for fontifying the links, i.e. based on *tags*?  i.e., for links to figures
**** Features for org-mode:
1. Implementations of ‘[ (X)  Doubt ]’ via ~org-insert-structure-template~ for modalising inputs
2. Personal completion cookie not based on actual tasks

*** Further comments

There’s stuff that’s mostly possible:
- =org-roam-unlinked-references= finds mentions to Emacs which aren’t linked
- (This is basically NNexus inside Org-Roam.)
- New feature: do this on regions.
- You would be able to select your abstract, and add links by discretion; this could allow serendipitously creating links
- Sometime the naive way to go will find things that aren’t linked for a reason!  So, don’t create them automatically...

The technology to distinguish between different types of links:

Leo has 3 or 4 different colours of links in his =[[Emacs]]= file.
- Linking to Org Roam file
- Linking to regular Org Mode file (not in Org Roam)
- Linking to citation records
- ... can define other rules like this
- JC: See also [[https://github.com/org-roam/org-roam-server/issues/130][Control color per tag #130]]
 - Various kinds of links and such can be computed by tags
 - Current paper, external paper, tag of ‘figure’ (for the link targets)
 - This would add a layer of meaningfulness
- Presently the tags live in the SQL database...
 - Is there a map to something that someone using a different database?
 - Would there be a later XML export that can be read by anyone?
 - For now, SQL is considered the agnostic information source
 - Current questions are more about how to get information into the database?

- NA: when I open org-roam-server, everything is connected to everything
- I started getting anxious about where’s the structure
- We wanted things to be decentralised, but we also want to see the structure
- RSP: non-commutativity, structure...

*** The first thing that comes into focus in the main document!

** Leo’s tag-up on crowdfunding campaign                               :10m:
- Not too much to say right now, this week took it slow
- Had a spiritual awakening... we talked about films philosophy spirituality... it was ‘off-topic’ for the discussion
- But got LV thinking about writing, breathing, thinking in the morning
- Needed to process what Tarsius said last week
  - Will make a video, will be present on social media
  - Will delay to the 19th, will allow to finish up some other jobs
  - RSP: this is the same date that RSP will have a presentation on biology
  - The week after is a good time for starting new projects (anything we are going to jointly work on, e.g., design requirements)
- Maybe things like ‘gathering user stories’ will be part of the roadmap
- We have a common milestone
- Do let us know how we can be helpful...
  - Maybe Leo should be presenter next week for 30 minute session or so
- LV want to keep it pretty informal
  - Not going w/ something heavily structured or polished
  - Not a 30 hour edited video...
  - Need to aim for a ‘sprezzatura’
  - This led to some further investigation of Walpole, the Medicis
  - ‘His method seems to be used the landscape as an element’; fitting in effortlessly?
** Follow-up to RSP/LV discussion from last time                       :5m:
Recap from the coffee chats:

Leo and Ray were coming from separate communities: developer + a certain community of 3 users. We had conflicting needs on conflicting timescales: different establishments meeting each other...? (The tale of Eastern Europe!)

*** Broader consideration

*Interoperability, with various communities & different kinds of software.*

Ray agrees about developing things the right way, taking enough time. BUT we also have users who want something to use now.  Logseq became exciting because we had a common thing that the co-authors can do something in Logseq, without all of us having to work in ShareLaTeX and pretending

*** Aside on scanners:
- Download Adobe Scan on the phone?
- Frame for the scanner & use the phone

** Stabilising the upcoming calendar                                   :5m:

/Invitees:/

| [2021-04-17 Sat] | Alex                                        |
| [2021-04-24 Sat] | Mark Dawson (PAR on M-x Research)           |
| [2021-05-01 Sat] | Cameron and Ximo? (‘Labour day’)            |
| [2021-05-08 Sat] | Rob Haisfield +1 (RoamResearch)             |
|------------------+---------------------------------------------|
| *Unstable future*  |                                             |
| [2021-05-15 Sat] | LogSeq folks? Tyler (Firn)                  |
| [2021-05-22 Sat] | Women and Emacs, after EmacsConf discussion |

** CLA                                                                 :5m:
- It might be fun to think about the /making-of/ part
  - cf. NA’s thesis at the beginning of today’s session
- CLA is about the future, and we’re interested in working on the future of /stuff/

* PAR                                                                  :15m:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:
*** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
**** Joe came ready to continue emotional processing
**** Ray: finding more about what Noorah was saying more
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
**** In the context of peeragogy we were talking about other disasters and how people can engage with them
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
**** We’ve been meeting for almost half a year
**** Ray and Joe have been trying to feel our way
**** Will our stuff about design patterns and futures be useful
**** Maybe we can do some shared readings around Noorah’s ‘adaptive capacity’ themes
**** But how do we think about this methodologically?
**** Need to articulate what we’re doing...
**** It’s helpful to talk about the ideas and this will make the writing work
**** Leo has been quieter today, partly by design (no experience w/ disseratation writing) BUT also if I just fade away from the discussion
**** This felt a bit chill; we wanted some more tight control sessions interspersed with less structured...
**** But we also didn’t get Leo’s checkin, partly because the rawness of the current situation
**** (This is good b/c we’re not letting things fester.)
**** Also keeping each other in the loop.
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
**** Interest in ‘adaptive capacity’ at the institutional level
**** Adaptability has to do w/ how strong their institutions are
**** Weak organisations will have difficulties working together
**** Right amount of structure; nevertheless there’s a benefit of ‘intention-based meetings’
**** Sharing idea of meetings without a proliferation of topics
**** “If I’m in this room I want to look to these topics.”
**** This signals intention and therefore prevents confusion
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
**** Ray’s point about NNexus and the link with what org-roam is doing, esp. ~org-roam-unlinked-references~
**** Maybe getting something fired up from 19th around adaptive capacity?
**** Will read some papers around these interests
**** We have enough bullet points to do another edition of the CLA

* Check-out (exceptional or not)

** LV
Doing wonderfully! Happy about today’s session. Glad that we made progress. Looking forward to next week.
