:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       2ee08bef-7b9e-464f-bdcd-45a994f648a5
:END:
#+TITLE: 16 July 2022 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2022-07-16 Sat>

* 16 July 2022  — Emacs Research Group


* Check-ins
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:

** NA
- Still early, I went out with mentee recently and she’s asking about how to think about her career.  Recommended: take a break if you can!

** JC
- [[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/jul/15/england-heatwave-what-is-level-4-national-emergency][First ever level 4 warning in the UK]]
  - NA: Recommends cooling towels.
- UK clojure people came back with a proposal about a contract, planning to meet next week with the actual client, could be a fun short thing to talk through

** LV
- Has just come from the pool, running late but happy to be here.
- "The best time to plant a tree was 10 years ago, and the next best time is now."  I’ve been wrestling with my keyboard for a month or so, coding symbols, learning C in the process... it’s come to the point where I’ve changed so many things on my keyboard that I need to rewire a lot of things in my brain.  So how about Colemak!  Will be pretty miserable for 2 weeks.  It’s a bit like inverted steering on the bike.
  - JC: Cf. [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critical_period_hypothesis][Critical period hypothesis]].
  - LV: The debate is mostly about how it works rather than why


** Audio-Video

- Self-censoring via OBS?

** Emacs bugs

- JC: [[https://github.com/polymode/polymode/issues/243][Polymode breakage]].
- LV: Config reloads for some non-reproducible reason, breaking indentation in Golang mode.

* Meta points

** TODO Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:

* TODO Pre-PAR — Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?

- Get grounded!  We’re well on the path to being on the same page.
- LV: Recap of mild debrief with AM: Restated worry of some overbearingness about the map

* Agenda (Part 1): Debrief Friday's meeting with Abby and list concrete tasks
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

Notes from the meeting follow verbatim, we can add comments.

** Pre-planning

*** IDEAS

- Inviting collaborators for British Academy grant proposal on the theme [[https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/funding/knowledge-frontiers-international-interdisciplinary-research/]["Global (Dis)order"]] (Deadline: *19 Oct 2022*)
  - Disorder is a theme that comes up in a lot of discussions: knowledge exchange, space creation, the need for disorder for resilience and adaptability (natural disorder applies across scales)

- Processes of answering some questions through the iterations, phases, and tools

*** Meta-question(s)

- What are the questions (i.e., prompts); and are these driven by Abby or the theme or the participants?
  - We can have prompts at each CLA level?
- What are the participants going to be like?

**** "HOW TO GO FROM A GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO NEVER MET TO AN INTEGRATED FORM OF ACTION?"

**** Context and Content
- Before the workshop
- After the workshop

Thinking about the contextual output, we want people from different fields to go out of the workshop with different ideas — we won’t turn an architect into a city planner or an expert on biology.  People typically just become more expert in their field.

If we ask people from different fields, we’ll have (say) 5 fields

| PERSON     | QUESTIONS                                                                        |
|            | Read the list of participants but merely on the roles, how do these inspire you? |
| Architect  |                                                                                  |
| Planner    |                                                                                  |
| Health     |                                                                                  |
| Film-maker |                                                                                  |
| Etc.       |                                                                                  |
|            |                                                                                  |

Make people confront the boundaries of their expertise.  E.g., they
might depend on the planner to know if they can build something here
or there.  By collecting this input data, we have the boundaries of
everyone’s expertise.  They’ll have frontiers w/ potential porosity,
e.g., interfaces between architect & planner.

So we’ll have some conceptual map of where the boundaries are.  Where
does the expertise belong?

**** They’ll have relatively rigid maps
#+begin_quote
"Architect @ health (e.g.)  Do I really need to care?"

Yes, I could be creative at these frontiers...  If I am generating
open space at a hospital, they can propose bridges.  But *litigation*
and *cost* can shut the frontiers down.
#+end_quote

**** What happens?

So, our role is: how do I generate an interface between these 2 remote
people?  Now, after the workshop, the architect knows what kind of
interface they can have with the health expert.

First analysing a map of the expertise in the fields; going from
incomplete conceptual map of where expertise lies — but being able to
ask probing questions to generate a frontier?

- Experts will want to do more of what they already do
- So, ask some probing questions like "How do you rank your ability to coordinate with the other person?  Is it hindered by them, or by some other person/policy/factor?"
- Not only mapping the boundaries, but involving some 3rd parties.

- So, this key point is recurring at multiple times on the map.  If multiple people address it as a blocker

*** Process
- From this, we can formulate a process of how they can talk to each other!

- JC: Use their native adaptive capacity, in response to our provocations?

  - JC: Could be interesting to bring it to the scale of a workshop
  - NA: Hey, how would you approach X, or Y?  This is gentle and won’t offend people.

**** We can achieve things if we have very concrete tasks!

- We could make bigger things happen too, but not necessarily quickly
- Furthermore in terms of the dynamic, we need to be able to design together what we want to do.  We should have probably had a firmer agreement earlier.
  - Thick and thin channels is a weakness that we’re aware of, including in our methods.
  - Doing it better next time would have just required us to gel things that we already had in our minds a bit early.  Had we had a conversation just to prepare things with Abby earlier, we might have found security and inspiration earlier.
   - Part of the job of the service-provider is to debunk what the client says they want (gently).

- *Nested Minds LLC* is doing some other service provision, but the simulation work didn’t go that well so far.
  - Idea to put a little simulation inside of the wiki
  - "An Active Inference Model of Collective Intelligence" could be an interesting conversation starter with these folks
    - LV: We’ve used words like *‘common ground’*

*** Outcomes

- Co-creation of the wiki, films, a gallery exhibition, etc., /needs to be driven by the people who are involved./
- *The long-term output* will be an integration of all of these things that allows people to share knowledge

- Improve methodology that can create novelty in various circumstances
- But for a prototype we need a vertical slice — if we collect a lot of contexts where we can apply the method, it won’t show what the key interest of the method is
- A grant proposal

*** THEMES

**** "How do we co-create public space for public health"?
  - Health: something many people will have opinions about
    - Global Health: not only from the individual’s perspective, but across different scales of time & space (e.g. climate)
***** Might need to be reformulated for people who are using the space
**** "Embodying the city"
  - /How/ to enable participants to become *producers of public space* — not just to access it, but to be able to contribute to the space?
  - Neoliberal cities are still centred around consumerism
**** Reciprocal exchange of knowledge, different types of experts
  - Citizen of the city

*** POTENTIAL INVITEES

- Landscape Architects
- Documentary makers (I-docs team from UWE)
   - Polyphony of multiple voices, engaging multiple citizens
- Identified public health stakeholders
- Identified public space stakeholders
- City planners
- Ex-mayor of Bristol
- Active Inference folks from the UK
- Artist
- Expert on X?
- Hyperreal, potentially, as experts on how to move to action?
- ...

**** All of them will have their own remit
- How do they interleave their things w/ that of others?

*** Other inputs

**** Potential pilot?
- What’s easy?

**** Ethnographic work in a case study to bring to the workshop
- Snapshots of different people’s narratives

*** /Outputs/

- Likely to be mostly text based...
- (vs) Bringing particular problem from which multiple people will have conflicting views...
- (vs) The bits connecting the different case studies...

- Documentary material could have a particular output...
- *Methods* for the disorder grant for whatever

- A commitment to a /research agenda/ that informs practice?
  - E.g., landscape architects that might not have an engagement with a space that goes beyond designing it

*** /Outcomes/ for participants
- "Now people have a broader perspective on what public health is."

** Iteration 1: Problem design/definition

- *CONTENT/CONTEXT DIVIDE:* this is useful to start to think about what I’m trying to achieve
- Context has been framing the novelty of the research; TWO STRAINS OF NOVELTY in relation to preparation for the grant, part of what we’re trying to do is use a theory & synthesise it with practical methods
- Is this testable because there’s no control?

- JC: How to go from the impetus question to specific prompts?
- NA: The questions need to come from you, the expert, we can come up with some questions but we mayn’t come up with the right ones.
- LV: On novelty, you can’t fully map out what kinds of interactions — this isn’t hard science or mathematics.  We’ll have irrational interactions between irrational people having irrational exchanges!

*** What is content?

- The workshop itself
- If you consider the workshop to be a blackbox, people go in, they don’t talk, then they get wired up and start talking with each other

- Content: We’re working on this black box (Sokoban grid)
- Content: But also, it’s the inputs (what’s in the Sokoban box?)
  - Content: Data we’re collecting within the workshop.

The workshop is the blackbox, there’s a function at the beginning of the workshop that turns context into content for the workshop.

People generally like our checkins, and this is something we’re familiar with.

Worry: What if Abby is deriving another meaning of ‘content’ or ‘context’?  With clients we want to be exceeding clear about the bounds of the project.  We need to make sure that the bounds of the black box fit within the world of the client.

**** Etherpad as a FLOSS solution to the ‘iron wall’
- Is it possible to fire up Etherpad within Emacs?
  - It’s not possible to have a live connection, but it’s possible to pull and push
**** CRDT client solution?
- But there are many other broken things, e.g., Peeragogy Github
- And there are many unknowns with CRDT, so it’s probably not good to bake into this contract
**** Emacs as a tool for experts.
- It’s the philosophy of Emacs that has fomented many of the good ideas.
- Emacs is part of _our_ context, but we can do the workshop with etherpads.

*** Scenario planning ** Before the workshop and during the first session
(Workshop? CLA?)

- *How to document activity?*

  - LV: Could it linked to the documents that should *augment* the experience?

  - So far we’re building on what might come out of this...
  - Can we include pictures / what purpose will it serve / who will it serve?

- *How to collect data?*
  - Can we use CLA to collect the data?  What we could do is formulate questions that are associated with each level:

**** Litany
**** System
**** Worldview
**** Myth

*** Pattern design
(Wiki? )

- *How to organise information for action?*
  - Creating an experience?

**** Roadmap? Storyboard?
**** Interactive map
Mapping across the city, with the wiki taking the form of a city map.

*** Project Action Reviews

(Deliberation? Working Consensus?)

- *How to sustain the effort?*

** Repeatable workshop method - we could run it in several places and times

- How do we move from having a group of people in different fields coming together creating & confronting views, and generating new paths of actions.
- Contrast, novelty, serendipity based on weird interactions; and from this workshop, we generate a textual picture of the exchange; the novelty that we want to distill... this becomes the event.
- This moves us from having different people meeting, to finding a method that guarantees a distillate that can be shared with other people
- The wiki is a way to share these reflections (which can be context-based)
- Getting the novelty that we’ve harvested — goal to create atomic blocks of serendipity which we can use in other places on the map, creating something that connect the dots ; not just applied in this park but also in social housing.

*** MVP?
- If all we get is documentation of what went on, it’s not really answering our question
- If we put people together, and the aim is to get them to act... we can’t necessarily guarantee success if it’s actions at the city level

** Next steps

- Thanks for a great conversation!
- JC: Save and then circulate the notes.
- NA: A good prompting question is, what do we need from you, Abby, and what do you need from us?
- LV: *The way we’ve been discussing content* might seem like we’re trimming a lot of stuff away, but it’s because we’re at the designing phase and want to get to the point as well; just trying to keep the scope neat so we can start work.  *‘Documentary’, e.g., isn’t focusing on this method.*
  - A next step is to ensure that the conceptual method fits everyone’s intent (especially Abby’s)
  - Do we think the method described will meet the targets?

It’s clearer for us to meet together [as we did on Friday!].

- NA: Convert the conceptual model / draw diagrams / write it up.
- [NA@AT: Potential participants, or mockup.]
- NA: What sort of questions would come up with this sort of group?

- AT: What’s the last point on the conceptual model... I’ve sat in workshops with these people and ‘governance’ is disabling with regard to the problem.  Between content & context is us, trying to create a _different way_ of doing thing.  I’m trying to engender a way to allow action, even though there’s top-down governance, through a different means.  Whether it’s a professional or non-professional, we’re sharing information in a new way of online governance.

- LV: If governance is a regular blocker, but we don’t solve it... can we do away with it during the workshop?  What if you had ownership of the project, more horizontally?  Can we see beyond governance, or reform, or generate reforms.

- JC: Can we imagine a pilot sooner rather than later?
- LV: What if we plan a workshop based on people who have been to a lot of these meetings who have a transversal perspective, to understand what the usual blockers?  A pre- workshop for us


* BREAK
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

* Agenda (Part 2): Bigger picture post September, ERG will go on!
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:20
:END:

- Going back to sleep after this?
- Neighbours have managed to put techno at 9PM, and fell asleep with it (until 8:30AM), or partied all night.
  - Could have been a murder!
  - Or something even more graphic...
  - The other neighbours on the other side has shared commiseration

- Private space adjoins a public airway!

- JC + CD Registered for in-person Anticipation 2022. $500 for the registration, plus travel.  Can Joe run the workshop himself with some assistance from Charlie?

  - Shop the method itself!  Get some feedback on what probing questions we can ask!  We’re not super experts on future / anticipatory methods.  It would be really helpful to think about what others have done.  Do they have similar black boxes?

** Diagram
- NA@LV: Can you draw?  Would it be possible to diagram the idea about the content/context thing.

 - NA: This sums up 5 pages of text!

There’s an interesting and weird claim that somehow there’s a Lego set that works across Emacs, Anticipation, and Public-Space.

As we’re mapping out our method, what better way to explain ourselves.

"Wrinkle" was an interesting keyword to describe one thing that we do.

What would the pilot look like for Emacs?  We should know what questions we want to ask.  We’re the experts is this case!

- We want to explore this aspect of Emacs, because we’ve never gone there before, whereas with public health, that’s Abby’s thing.

Could we leave these sessions with questions we would want to ask other people?

** Cf. Platform design toolkit
- They have nice toolkits, and the "transaction" and "learning" engines seem related to what we are doing with content and context respectively.


- Their latest whitepaper doc is "New Foundations of Platform-Ecosystem Thinking".
- "Framing the future through the No More and Not Yet"

** Highlighting list function
- (Create lists of words.)
- Run something before that, to get the answers from one algorithm, maybe a "Statistically Improbable Phrase" generator.

** How do we learn about ‘methods for generating novelty’

- Presumably by trying, sometimes succeeding, and sometimes not.
- It’s a rare PAR where someone says "we learned nothing", but we should be a bit humble about just how much we know about

* PAR :review:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:10
:END:


*** 1. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Big innovation to have a drawing!
- Sacha did this at EmacsConf 1 and probably since then... next time probably coming with stenography or whatever!

*** 2. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?
- JC: I think last meeting was a good experience for us to work together as a team, and a good bonding experience.

*** 3. What did we learn or change?
- "Relationships" as a key element that updates through the workshop process
- Wiki is tangential b/c it outputs all the good things we’ve done.
  - Do we have a shared folder?
  - We could drop it in our repo...
  - Or we could make them embed into the wiki.

*** 4. What else should we change going forward?
- LV: Redo some of these drawings
  - NA: And export a PDF.
- JC: Need to do the "next steps" from our meeting from Abby


* Tentative agenda for next week

- To flesh out Leo’s diagram
- Abby did say she’d drop some times when we could meet.
- Hopefully get paid

** Questions for reflection
** Research questions

- Ask EmacsConf team if they would like to do a pilot workshop with us sometime?
  - Or we could invite some of the other folks who are likely to come to the conference... (e.g. Grant Shoshin Shangreaux).

* Check-out
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Going to go nap.

** JC
- Going to the garden and to a choir concert
  - Go find evaporative towels (or any towel that’s porous).
- In 20 years it’s going to be even hotter!

** LV
- I have the diagram (2MB pdf) which I can share, putting it on BBB for now.
  - NA: Beautiful handwriting, and good to keep fleshing out!
- I have a date tomorrow!
- And will keep Colemaking tonight, and next up eating.
