#+TITLE: 11 December 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Raymond Puzio, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-Dec-11 Sat>

* 11 December 2021  — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                            :15m:

** RP
- No updates since last time.
** JC
- Well impressed with the new yasnippet feature!
- Heard back from John wrt the paper; asked to create an APA-valid format of the paper, but he didn’t specify how much time we2 had.
  - "Yes, please send us the updated piece, and you can have a bit more time to submit."
- JC: Going to a choir concert at top of the 2nd hour
** LV
- Known henceforth as “LP” because of the NA’s yasnippet
- Just coming from EmacsConf debrief, mostly along the lines of reorganising meetings + async work across time zones; all the organisers are on board with this
  - How can we circumscribe projects, conference, info work; want people to work on what they want, like, and are good at
  - JC: [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ikigai][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ikigai]]
  - Shot, MH, dating, going well
  - Still meeting fatigued!
  - All volume is now on a filter (though not for the recording)
** NA
- Kicking off checkins as chair!
- Got nails done for Christmas on Thursdays; and similarly /on the other hand./
- Went to a party and now feeling a bit under the weather

* Meta points

** DONE Don't forget to record the session!                             :LV:
** Recall discussion from Thursday about scheduling and other meta points
** Could we work on audio parameters, and whatever is required to make it not autogained?
- Leo has been leaving ERG w/ a cluster headache
- Led (in a straightforward way) to despair about attending
- "[[https://www.amazon.com/Sony-WH-1000XM4-Canceling-Headphones-phone-call/dp/B0863TXGM3/][Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Industry Leading Noise Canceling Overhead Headphones with Mic for Phone-Call and Alexa Voice Control, Black]]" ($248.00)

* Agenda                                                               :40m:
** Tentative agenda for next week
*** Reflecting on the EmacsConf talk                                    :5m:
- Ray has watched all but 7 of the talks EmacsConf!
- JC: has already done a different version of his talk for his institution; he’s also (starting to) draft a grant which would mobilise elements of it
*** Scheduling, meeting moderation style                               :15m:
- NA,RP: How we start off meetings...
  - What we talked about was the idea that when we walk into a meeting, we are often in the mindspace of going straight into the topic that we’re talking about.
  - If we start by talking about something else it can throw off the tendency to the main topic.
  - What can we do to make checkins relevant / non-distracting?
  - If people have something meaningful to say of course they should bring it, but if we have a general discussion on philosophical themes before the main meeting it can be distracting... if we’re going to have other reflections
  - JC: Lots of topics and places to discuss them...
  - LV: Checkins were just supposed to be quick voicing of how we’re doing; so, further, I don’t come here to work, but come to partake in something but I don’t call this work
    - Why did the checkins become longer?
    - We created more times to have chill-out sessions that last somewhat longer!
    - In PLACARD workshops it sounds more like "work" than friendliness, open communication.
    - So is this a case against checkins?  A dichotomy in which some people want to work, some want to be there?
  - RP: This isn’t a case against checkins, it’s a question of do we do them before or after we get to the agenda?
  - JC: Maybe it’s the responsibility of the chair to check in on behalf of the agenda?
  - RP: Maybe reserve free time for discussion towards the end?
  - LV: I like short checkin for 15 minutes (with small technical stuff) and social stuff?
    - 30 minutes to get started?  Well, we may need some time to prepare the room early.
    - RP: MAybe it will put you at ease to know: the question is, does it make sense to have an extension of coffee chat before we get into the agenda?
  - NA: The thing that made me feel thrown off was, within the 1hr meetings during the week, sometimes people will come from a different conversation, and that can take time out of the meeting.  It’s about the head-space of how the discussion moves along.  As for Saturday, I like the nice place to hang out and reflect, and that’s the goal for me for Saturday meetings, as a reflection on the week, what happened during the week, getting into the next week more refreshed.  Because we’re all working in different projects w/ different languages it can become confusing!
  - Does this apply to these meetings or the coffee chat?
- Will organise meeting w/ LV for next week
- Our next meeting for the year would be Saturday the 18th then take 2 weeks off, and come back on January 3rd?
- JC: On moderation styles; it’s not just about moderating the /meetings/, but also about moderating the workflows

*** Broader moderation towards what?
- CLA, as ways to think about everything from the litany (immediate issues) to worldview or myth level (what are the deeper issues)
- How does the meeting reflect our broader purposes...
- What is the Saturday meeting?
  - Reflect
  - Wind down,
  - Get ready
  - NA: If we had serious deadlines we could use it to work on that as well but would rather keep the week for work-work!
  - RP: OK, so this leads to a question about topic... to make sure e.g., coffee chats (reflection), workshops (work)...
    - Let’s not barge into something else during the week that we had for something else
  - LP: As we’re working on the alchemy of the meetings... I would be willing to say, since Saturday happens to be the day when I can be there for 2h or 1h30m, please use me as a resource at this time.  From a vantage point of not being in the chair, I see other things.  I was chairing the EmacsConf meeting, but 80% involved in the discussion, 20% looking ahead at the agenda, trying to make sure that things are productive/friendly/good communication... so, let’s use the session for what we can mobilise during the discussion.
    - What’s most satisfactory for LP: I’m good at looking at processes, so use me as a resource for this.  I’m the gaze that can be laid on the work you are doing, and providing a distantiated gaze on the workflow; keeping in mind other projects that I’m involved with and successes therein.
    - And please also use me as design documents... this means I can start plugging away at these things.
    - I’d also like to volunteer to rework the way we interrupt one another, we may either wait too long, or interrupt to quickly...
    - How to Marines do it w/ "Roger", "Out", and such.
    - We’re dealing with BBB: FLOSS but also less-than-stellar
    - ... rules could reflect the tech?

- Checkins
- Litany level
- NA: my ideas about how I’d like to proceed w/ the meetings later!

** DONE Break? :5m:
- LV: Sharing the timer via a buffer
  - JC: Awesome!
- JC: "Learn to love the mute button!"

- Adding action words to headings?
*** INPROGRESS FINISHED ETC?
- Could be buffer-specific TODOs?  Not actionable-actionable, but... hey started this conversation, we’re confused, words about where we are in the muddling through...
- Goal is also be able to have a programmatic way to move the started items that are not finished to the future agenda
- It could be automatized
- A question is an action...
- Let’s table this for next week

** ERG: how we would define ourselves as a group this year?            :15m:

*** Framing
#+begin_quote
If I go to a party and someone asks me about ERG, what do I say about that?
#+end_quote

- Question of the title of participants for the CV/resume

- I want to share this with people: "hey, I did this!"
- Not work experience but "leadership, volunteering, extra-curricular"
- How to do it in a way that will make sense to others?

- "Cofounder of collaborative research group on free/open source software"

*** Current status
- Leo does have this in his CV
  - JC: Could update the roles for 2022
*** Options
- High-level thinking (free software)
- vs Podcast (which would say nothing about what it’s actually about)

** WHAT SHOULD WE SAY TO THE PEOPLE WE MET AT THE EMACS CONFERENCE?   :10m:
- What do we want to do with Greta?


* PAR                                                                  :10m:

*** 1. Review the intention: what did we expect to learn or make together?

*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?

*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what's happening?

*** 4. What did we learn or change?

*** 5. What else should we change going forward?

* Tentative agenda for next week

- Peeragogy on 18th of December

* Check-out                                                             :5m:

** NA

** JC

** RP

** LV
