#+TITLE: 20 February 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-02-20 Saturday>

* 20 February 2021 — Emacs Research Group

(Notes to be added here.) We also have the [[file:cla-20-february-2021.org][CLA 20 February 2021]] which is starting to collect input to progress our CLA.

* Checkins/News/Agenda
- 1 hour Leo agenda
- 30 min other topics
- 15 min PAR
** Leo
- Feeling quite tired
- Came from EmacsConf, which had lots of crashes
- Limited monitor
- Get data out of the PARs 
- Try to do CLA that surfaces info about interviews
- It’s been a dense month
- Interview w/ Peeragogy podcast
- General review, try to re-surface input-output
- Would like to present this & get some ideas and reflections
- The FHI ideas are somewhat getting rerouted into this
** Noorah
- surviving Snowpocalypse 2021
- Feeling creatively drained & glad we are meeting today
- Peeragogy podcast interview was fun and gave a lot of ideas
** Joe
- Sacha automation via yasnippets
- We now have a template for our weekly meetings
- Joe did spend some time creating a file for today’s CLA
** Raymond
- Got back to meet w/ Joe & Leo a couple days ago
- Thinking about the white paper reminds me of scientific projects where we get an idea and then wait until we get the result and the papers take care of themselves
- So, when we do have a paper we will have a better one because we have a better understanding of collaborative writing in Emacs.
** Cameron
- Might be getting some leeway at work
** David
- Was hoping to join, shared a stream with some VR gaming

* CRDT updated!

#+begin_src bash
cd ~/crdt.el/ 
git pull
#+end_src

#+begin_src emacs-lisp
(load-file "~/crdt.el/crdt.el")
#+end_src
Then:

#+begin_src bash
M-x crdt-connect RET metameso.org RET RET RET
#+end_src

* Quality Assurance testing of recent CRDT features [3/3]
#+begin_quote
Qiantan: I’ve authored a few changes to crdt.el addressing some issue we discussed:
- [X] correct behavior when changing major mode
- [X] mouse click alias for RET in crdt-*-menu
- [X] crdt-visualize-author-mode
#+end_quote

** Follow up
*** M-x crdt-share-buffer should give a default for RET          :usability:
*** Underlining color is incorrect on the server                     :repro:
*** Underlining color goes away inside org mode on client            :repro:

* Meeting topics
** Review interviews w/ Qiantan, Charlie et al                         :20m:
#+begin_quote
[[06 February 2021 — Emacs Research Group]]
[[file:exp2exp.github.io/src/erg-13-02-2021.org][13 February 2021 — Emacs Research Group]]
#+end_quote
- We all thought it was good, this was exactly the kind of thing we wanted to do!
- Ray made a note that we’re using the latest version of crdt.el, and whilst it’s buggy, it’s working
- Noorah left the meeting with Peeragogy very energised (both the ones with the ERG, and the Peeragogy Podcast)
- We need to find a balance between interviews (including both development and users) and ‘regular sessions’
- Qiantan & Charlie had different styles + subjects, and our styles of interview were different
  - Having a cycle between dev-oriented and method-oriented interviews
  - It’s mainly just a matter of scheduling
- Compare Emacs New York (short, long, hack night, panel discussion)
- Compare “M-x Research” — Leo is following up with them (18th March), maybe we can have a joint meeting with them later
- E.g., Sacha would be great as a guest on Emacs culture
- Those interviews/meetings had some nice follow-ups to them
  - Qiantan’s iteration on crdt.el
  - Charlotte’s and Charlie’s excitement about our tools
** CLA for other stuff that we’ve been doing                           :20m:
[[file:exp2exp.github.io/src/erg-20-02-2021.org][20 February 2021 — Emacs Research Group]]
- crdt.el idea: relative file-paths for links inserted in a buffer
  - Enforcing default-directory locally?
- Org-transclusions would help here
** Leo thinking about Kickstarter project                              :15m:
- Aiming to get some more feedback here
- Thinking back to our first meetings, Leo had been highlighting financing work on Emacs
- Right now he’s aware of planning to write free software but needs to think of a system that allows him to keep doing this
- Had highlighted milestone-based plans (e.g., get transclusion into Org Roam with money on the table)
 - But this was linked to Org Roam, and Leo’s also an Org Mode developer (e.g., org agenda, tasks: not in core Emacs)
- So what could be interesting is to try to move to a position that affects all of Org Mode
- a position of mediation between MELPA packages and Org Mode... 
- E.g., alphapapa (Adam): =org-ql=, =org-super-agenda= — but he doesn’t want to merge this stuff into core b/c of bureaucracy
 - It’s not an ideological difference, just a matter of overcoming the inconveniences
- =org-noter= and =pdf-tools= are presently abandoned: and we might even have trouble getting Copyright for FSF
- There are many pockets of interested users around; Org Roam w/ 3K stars on github is just one
 - Transclusions, backlinks and so on could go into Org Mode
 - But rather than having just the Org Roam crowd this would address the whole Org Mode crowd
 - ORB is an example (which connects different packages)
 - But Org Super Agenda isn’t presently connected
- There are plenty of people, e.g., a maths department wanting a Jupyter to org exporter; maybe not reaching the corporate crowd like Magit but still there are people there
- Thinking about taxes and fees reached €17K figure for 6 months of work, with stretch goals (like doing a year of work).
- Developer, leader, good at talking with people...
*** Feedback
- Hypernotebooks would be an example we’d like to merge into Org mode
- This reminds Ray of discussions about business model of Hyperreal — we could continue this during the week
- Refining this 10-min speech into a 3-min speech might be better in a startup
  - Honing the structure, the sub-points, and hinting it as being the draft for the kickstarter
  - Maybe the first challenge would be honing on /why/ this is what I want to be doing in the next 6 months
** JC NA to follow up about structure of networks & peeragogy           :5m:
- org-roam-server as a nice introduction to org-roam and the structure of any complex concept
  - The problem is that it does not show structure
- Thinking about boundaries and structures (e.g., w/ our Org Roam directories)
- Right now we are at the note-taking phase, what do we do next
- One solution(?): with transclusion to put together the pieces (but this is just visual)
- Nicolas Luhmann — like Luhmann method — on systems theory: can notice how the notes are connecting from one note to another
  - But it took NA quite some effort to comphrehend what he’s actually saying, and has to go back 
  - So, it can be a bad thing to collect notes without comprehending where you’re going!
- Joe to follow on /Notes to Narrative/
** Meeting and prep and workflow                                        :10m:
*** How to make sure we follow up
- Notes without method are just dead weight; it’s best to process them to keep them usable
- We could have a shared agenda, let’s leave it for a while
- Leo did make a commit to exp2exp
- Would be good to go through exp2exp and prune it some times
** Whitepaper thoughts                                                  :5m:
- Joe hasn’t gotten back to Topos
- There are other things we can do w/ the NSF Future of Work thing
- If we’re trying to build a collaborative system within Emacs we should be learning from the people who have already
- How to proceed with RStudio + people there? — A few chats with the could
 - Can also look at RStudio videos on Youtube to see how it’s being used
* PAR                                                                  :15m:
*** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
**** We came with an agenda and had a lot of topics to look at
**** We also invited everyone to add agenda items at the beginning
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
**** Today, we’ve mentioned many times our desire to refine/distil
**** We’ve been going quite fast today
**** More tightly contained + minuted topics helped us keep from going into super high level discussions
**** However the high-level discussions allow more room for serendipity?
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
**** Hungry, tired, maybe a bit stressed
**** Updating the PAR /live/ with points might be interesting
**** It’s all happening within a context, and now that we’re all getting more familiar with patterns, we’re more aware of thinking of things /contextually/
**** Leo’s life has a lot going on!
**** Snowpocalypse is also pretty involving
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
**** EmacsConf is less objective-based and more having a circle of support
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
**** Leo will follow up with Rob
**** Joe: can report back on practical details of serendipity next week!
**** Build some Elisp sessions for ourselves in future!
