#+TITLE: ERG just pars
#+CATEGORY: RESEARCH

#
* Here’s our first Project Action Review!

1. *Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?*

- Joe Noorah and Leo wanted to convene a meeting with interested parties in Emacs+Research
- Address longstanding worry about "wait until next year"
- Part of a greater sense of trying to do something with EmacsConf to federate the community

2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?

- Met for an initial 70 minute meeting (via Zoom)
- Everyone shared a brief intro and ideas so we got to know each other
- Joe took notes via screenshare... we all took notes (as academics)

3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?

- Cameron: We are meeting for the first time so there’s a lot of intro information
 - We generally agreed that we want to make something that exposes intrinsic value of using these tools
 - Vaguely agreed on follow-up directions, this seems to be a general consensus, often with full agreement (e.g. on testing and making a collaborative Org Roam work, to further cement as tool for collective thinking in combination w/ individual)
- David: there are ways I could help out with extra elisp, helping figure out a package, intro elisp workshop
- Joe: Leo did an amazing job facilitating the meeting
- Ray: I was impressed by the diversity of the group in background & levels of use

4. What did we learn or change?

- We can do this!
- We feel empowered
- Wonderful outcome from attending EmacsConf 2020!
- Public Policy conference: (How to get a grant?)

5. What else should we change going forward?

- Ongoing dialogue
- Maybe with breakout groups
- Need for governance for this; getting public, taking time we need going forward
- Many actions need to be taken forward but we have too many right now: maybe this should be the next objective to pick a good viable project to go after now
- Can set up a shared Org Roam + Firn instance: do we want to use this?
 - Can work have something similar w/in Org Roam
- Someone to schedule the next meeting... accomodate UTC+8, maybe use BBB; Leo will publish scheduler

* Review

** Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?

- Start to set up next year’s agenda
- Work on methodology of the group

** Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?

- Continued on the trend of pruning things out
- Needed to narrow our focus so we can broaden later

** What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?

- Seminars & Emacs journal
- Nice thinking about a standard method that can accomodate different kinds of topics
- Focus of small group & connections to the rest of the world looking good

** What did we learn or change?

- Listening!
- How to open up? — Somewhat technical discussions take time to absorb
- "I+1 vs I+10"
- Felt a degree of coherence

**** What else should we change going forward?

- Ability to show demos on Emacs is always there and a potentially good style
- Have a nice language for asking for demo material, or other needs
- Would be nice to have 2 screenshares (but BBB can’t do this simulatenously)
- OBS could forward screens to webcam, but it’s finicky... still, interesting to develop this!  How to suggest features for other infrastructure
- To think about talks we might like to give (for weeks we don’t get invited speakers)

* PAR review, allow 15 minutes (from 19:15)

“An extra question: are we being transparent with the way we’re working & are we documenting it properly?”

** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- Share updates
- Keep momentum going
- Plan whitepaper — Still narrowing to a decent output
** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- ‘Method’ — a potential topic of key interest
- Talking about actualizing what we’re doing
** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- This was a productive session in terms of concrete things being done
- Good coverage of speakers
- Sad we lost David at the end!
- This could turn into a grant (be careful!)
- Whitepaper should be ‘enough’ as a pilot study
** 4. What did we learn or change?
- David & Noorah have joined the Discord server!
- “An extra question: are we being transparent with the way we’re working & are we documenting it properly?”
** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- 4PM UTC chats: welcome for beverage
- Getting the shared *Zettlekasten* / OR working!
 - (Zettlekasten isn’t yet a solved problem.)
- crdt.el — Qiantan is on vacation, he’s working now... we might want to get in touch!
 - if we ended up writing a paper about this he should be included
- Invite for forseeable future?
- Journal paper ... what would this look like:
- Leo plans:
 - It might be wiser to re-ask this next week, e.g., could we set up the slipbox properly?
 - Repo for slipbox
 - Notes on methodology — will include local file that includes the configuration
 - To share by Monday
- Possible structure of whitepaper:
 - Virtuous circle of reflection.

* Review
** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- Desire to work on methodology: address the many hurdles LV faced with collaborative slip box
** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Over the week, got a clearer notion of what’s going on here after looking at OR in action, will look at things after the call
- We’re all getting to know each other better during the week
** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- LV & CRS had a lot to say today! (<5 mins each? Length of intervention was a result of the topics! There was some free association style.)
- Taking a step back was helpful
- exp2exp wiki does exist, paired with Tyler on Firn, we could go on w/ this
- JC: Loved the reference to Deleuze
- About these PARS... the method of ongoing review still needs improvement
- We missed Ray... would be nice to pass him a link to the recording (later in the week)
** 4. What did we learn or change?
- Today w/o necessarily setting out to do this we took steps back to think about what we’re actually doing: more concerned with direction than outputs
- Missing link in HCI: refinement! Another: the importance of collaboration! — Everyone is able to collect a lot of data, but if people can’t refine... collaborative writing based on refinement of drafts &c; is not a proper way to elaborate
** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- Awareness of the adversarial process in review of research
- Seed the collaboration by collaborating on an OR instance
- Maybe not call it a ‘white paper’ — we want to continue this exploration, including infrastructure
- We could learn more from these if we start from a review next time: the distinction between skillful & unskillful (e.g., start w/ a 15 minute review next week where we use these as data); possibly bring this in as a monthly cycle (review method)
- LV: Planning to go back over notes & improve current ZK to share
- Same time next week 17:30 UTC next week!

* Review — 16th January
** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
*** Looking at CLA, thinking about what a more ‘meta’ approach looks like, making sure that our ethics align with the project
*** Meta-analysis is a big part of what we’re doing?                   :data:
*** We want to do more with these reviews than just file them away for future archaeologists
*** Make the inputs contextual.
** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
*** Tiny intro to CLA on the fly, based on reviewing a TEDx talk this afternoon; never done one before
*** We came up with an adapted plan for the exercise
*** More personal discussion will feed nicely into this
*** Hyperreal Enterprises Firn config ported to PeeragogyORG
*** We never got around to doing CLA there yet, but this will help
** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
*** Last week: ‘methodology’, ‘collaboration’; now, trying to ‘debug’ the way we work together
*** The ways we’ve been discussing has created a healthy dialogue
*** CLA came to us from the last large Peeragogy paper
*** We’re contributing to Peeragogy from within
*** We hardly spoke about emacs (just mentioned crdt.el; we didn’t specifically talk about Emacs)... if 3 weeks go by w/o discussion
*** Are we becoming more an extension of the Peeragogy group (...and less about Emacs?)
*** But Emacs could come back into it for managing tech
*** Maybe both aspects are meeting in the middle!
*** This review seems more conclusive/actionable
** 4. What did we learn or change?
*** Created a Google Doc for 2 experiments at once: (1) to use a google doc and think about what works and doesn’t (2) CLA homework
*** Leo’s situation
*** The overall relationship between academia and research
*** Relationship between these kinds of personal health things and the "group health"
** 5. What else should we change going forward?
*** Contacting Bradley Kuhn about the NSF grant
*** Report to Cameron and David about what we covered
*** Review the CLA stuff
*** Finding density poles within research?                         :metaphor:
*** Joe to pass info about Firn tags to Leo
*** Maybe milestone based funding for Org Roam
*** Following up w/ 1600 UTC weekdays
