#+TITLE: 13 November 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, Raymond Puzio, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-11-13 Sat>

* 13 November 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Check-ins                                                             :15m:
** NA
- Had a strange morning, car wouldn’t start, so had to cancel gym
- Hybrid batteries can glitch, and can be fixed by jump starting
  - LV: in the US you see everyone getting far away from you if you don’t have a car
- (I chill out when I’m stressed!)
** JC
- Tired, because he’s been relaxing.
** RP
- Joining via phone today
- 2 things: this Wednesday at the category seminar we have Conceptual Blending (=@Joe=), and,
- This Thursday at 2PM UK will be about editing the PLoP paper on the basis of Writer’s Workshop comments.
- Ray will review the WW video, [[https://youtu.be/X-Yk_7xBjXA][https://youtu.be/X-Yk_7xBjXA]]
  - Can we meet earlier in the week to prep it?  And/or can we do it all during the one-hour session?
** LV
- Tired because of EmacsConf prep (just ended 10 minutes ago)
  - Working on remembering pronunciation many names from around the world in many languages
- Waiting for many pre-recorded videos and expecting to adapt on the fly (which won’t be fun)
  - RP: I / we are willing to help if possible!
  - LV: Mostly I’m just going to be busy (as long as I don’t sacrifice sleep)
     - I have been going to bed at around 8PM
- In two weeks [November 27th] we will all (presumably) be at EmacsConf 

* Meta points
** DONE Don’t forget to record the session!                             :LV:
CLOSED: [2021-11-13 Sat 18:36]
** Recall discussion from Thursday about scheduling and other meta points

* Agenda                                                                :40m:
LV: Since we have finished everything regarding EmacsConf, can we keep
this session to 1 or 1.5 hours?
** EmacsConf: Debrief                                                   :5m:
- *(Nice to reflect on this from the position of being finished.)*
- We are still in advance of 50% of the speakers!
- NA: thanks to Ray for lighting the fire to get it moving!
  - LV: I erred on the side of not allowing enough time, so the combination was roughly on the dot (4 days off of the dot, but better than most)
- JC: Shared the video with his family (‘it took us roughly 100h, it’ll take you 10'’!); and thought it was quite good.
- JC: On the [2021-11-18 Thu], will give a talk at Brookes, giving Joe’s Version™ of the talk
  - It might be more focussed on AI, given it’s for Brookes.
  - Big grants could also be appropriate
  - Can we help on this?
    - LV: We could have a coffee-chat dedicated to it?
    - JC: Could present the extra slides? Or simply post-pare by reporting back directly in our Workshop session.

** Planning the near-future (PLoP)                                     :30m:
- The sooner we are done with the paper the sooner we can focus on the workshop
- RP: Plus the workshop is in the research phase whereas the paper is in the finalising phase
- LV: So let’s make sure we have some deadline-oriented stuff first, but keep enough time for the creativity
  - RP: Including by getting the deadline stuff out of the way so we have more free time!
  - LV: Success with this method also requires the deadlines to be far enough away that it doesn’t become an emergency
*** What do we do for PLoP (before December 7th)
- To coordinate with the Thursday peeragogy paper meeting
- RA: Would be prudent to hold time for this on next Saturday at ERG
- NA: If we start talking on the workshop it will be deep, so rather just do the paper so we can switch; after finishing a task I need a breather
- LV: I probably won’t be able to contribute too much; I will try to move the interview to first week of December (however); for the paper I won’t be able to to make it to all the workshops, but if you need someone to gauge the progress
- JC: We probably don’t need to timebox it now; but it’s quite possible that we’d spend 3h total hands-on-keyboard.  By next Saturday, we might be done with it.
  - At end of next Saturday ‘Are we done?’
- Latest version (with direct link to comments):
  [[https://github.com/Peeragogy/PatternsOfPatterns/blob/main/application-science.org#summary][https://github.com/Peeragogy/PatternsOfPatterns/blob/main/application-science.org#summary]]

- RP: Let’s discuss the paper on Tuesday or so?  Maybe continue the discussion on Thursday at 4PM?  If we include the Saturday then we can be quite sure we’d be done.
- NA: Or just meet 8 to 11 and knock it out?
- RP: Better to have the 1 hour break
- JC: Maybe the Workshop session will be a bit more planning, or maybe it will editing (depending on what we need)
- Leo will join this one at 4PM but will be brief because he’ll have a meeting with a potential client that day
- JC: Thinking ahead to Saturday; would like to do ERG’s take on this paper; sanity-check for the paper
  - RP: These COULD BE a nice start for Season One of ERG; let’s check them and see.

*** Tuesday: Alex will (hopefully) check-in with us to talk with NA on text-processing
- JC: Alex works for a legal company, and right now, he’s reviewing contracts, which seems like a topic that is aligned with what we’re trying to do right now with the workshop.  He also has a Master in Data Science. (NLP; Natural legalese processing)

- LV: Cf. FR/Etalab early investment in analyses of tribunal data
- NA: Two early things: how to preprocess the documents, and then some regexps
- LV: [[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/nov/09/kyle-rittenhouse-murder-trial-drone-footage][Kyle Rittenhouse]] trial has become very political with some tech stuff coming up

*** No session on [2021-11-27 Sat] because we have EmacsConf!
- *Warning that Leo will also have some tech testing stuff going on the 20th (however there’s a 90% chance he will attend the meeting anyway)*
- Also, our talk is at 17:43 UTC on the Friday
- Leo will be answering questions live (starting 17:53), we’ll also have a pad that we can answer questions on.
- We can also add our own questions to the pad that we might especially want to answer!

* PAR                                                                   :10m:
*** 1. Review the intention: what did we expect to learn or make together?
- JC: We wanted to have a short session, and even though there were doubts about needing to go for a second hour, we’ve managed to do verything we wanted to do.
- Recall that in the CLA it says "we are going to focus on methods"
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Kept to 1 hour (with a 10 minute PAR overrun)
- The meta talks we’ve had this week have allowed us to make good headway on how we work together; this is at least somewhat related to our work on the PLACARD workshop
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- RP: Wanted to get to PLoP today to have time to think before we jump into editing
- NA: We’re maturing as a group, being more deliberate about what we’re doing which is nice.
  - We’ve been able to turn our aspirations into concrete things and delivering
  - Maturation is a process that doesn’t necessarily imply more outputs; but we can think that as we mature we can produce more stuff
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
- Out of our discussions during the week, we’ve also developed potential new patterns, like VEST (Visionary, Engineers, Scientists, Technicians)
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- Possibly adjust Hyperreal coffee chats
- The talk should reproduce more ERGs after we plant the seeds!
- For 2022, can we take steps to equalise the volume across our mics/sessions (maybe with suggestions to BBB)

* Tentative agenda for next week
** Progress report on the PLoP paper (and focus on it instead of the workshop for now)
** Tackling the bus factor of chairing those meetings
** TODO LV: Look at the recording to remember what the rest of the tentative agenda was
** Longer-term planning (maybe next-next session)
- Including the broader patterns of scheduling w/in various groups

* Check-out                                                              :5m:
** NA
- Can you train me how to run the meetings?
- Happy we are being more deliberate, it helps clear my mind, and it’s better than jumping around topics
- I am going to test out one of my Christmas cookies, got a nice spiced cookie recipe
** JC
- As usual, very tired, but feeling much better by the end of it!
- The biggest support for his Brookes talk was us reminding him that the talk is in 4 days.
- Things are getting moving on the informal stuff.
- We did a lot of meticulous scheduling, and that was good 
** RP
- Look forward to seeing you 17:30 UTC Monday;
- For next year would like to bring some more technical sides of Emacs
  - LV: If 2021 was about ERG, 2022 would be more about fielding a workshop with Emacs package developers; Qiantan, Adam, RP+JC all interested.
  - RP: Also the 1-year-anniversary of EmacsConf 2020 we haven’t yet tackled concrete details with Hypernotebooks!  So would like to have more going on with this (e.g., in the context of a group who can understand something about Babel)
  - A couple developers might be willing to join us, but it might be more linked with Emacsverse/Emacsconf things.
** LV
- Very happy about how the meeting went; I feel we have been able to make good headway towards planning, listening to everyone, considering all points of view; happy about how it’s gone, and glad that the meeting did actually take one hour (give or take 15 minutes)
- I will go to bed earlier and earlier, so in general if we stick to 1h30m that would be better in future!
  - JC: Recall that we used to have long meetings with 8 topics until we learned better
  - NA: Now we can be more deliberate with our energies
- Audio with BBB is breaking my gonads; between microphones and echos it’s 
