#+TITLE: 8 May 2021 — Emacs Research Group
#+Author: Noorah Alhasan, Joe Corneli, David O’Toole, Raymond Puzio, Cameron Ray Smith, Leo Vivier
#+roam_tag: HI
#+FIRN_UNDER: erg
# Uncomment these lines and adjust the date to match
#+FIRN_LAYOUT: erg-update
#+DATE_CREATED: <2021-05-08 Sat>

We usually meet for 2 hours, starting 17:30 UK time.  

As a template, we have one special guest, one extra topic, a PAR,
and some informal chat. We take notes into the agenda using crdt.

(Details vary per session.)

* 8 May 2021 — Emacs Research Group

* Weather check-in
| NA  | 26 |
| LV  | 23 |
| JC  | 13 |
| CS  | 12 |
| RSP | 11 |

* Check-ins                                                             :25m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   0:20
:END:
** Raymond
- Continuing w/ Rheingold book (finished)
- Diffusion calculation continues
- Last Monday attended Emacs NYC, could give an update
  - JC: Tips on how to pronounce "NYC"
** Noorah
- Set up a date for proposal 3rd wk of August
- Advisor going away for a while
** Joe
- Keyboard decided to act up exactly when he needed to do his check-in
- A tense week in the Thames valley region.
- Flame-ish war with the colleagues
- Has been experimenting with org-habits
- Been trying to implement Cameron’s advice of planning ahead
  - has tried planning =1.5y= ahead compared to Cameron’s =5y=
- Kept working on his paper Zettelkasten
- Hasn’t been doing as much reading as RSP
** Cameron
- The broader view: have started working at "Inference" company, learning what it means to work in a company, w/ some management responsibilities
- The company partly acts like an academic institution and wants to produce research, but sort of wants the research to be related to their commercial goals — how to navigate this!?
- Overall doing well, curious about Leo’s startup opportunity would be about
- If anyone has the inclination: why should I not use the extension?
  - [[https://workona.com/][Workona | Flexible workspaces for any project]]
- Cameron would like to compress the tool usage — so interested in advice about this sort of thing
** Leo
- Had a better week than last
  - Backstory: secondhand books delivery, like /Vinted/ for books, the software computes the best price to sell it, drop the thing at nearest shop, then manage the logistic of selling the books
  - Booming due to Covid — Leo did a technical test and so wondering what’s up
- Today has sent an email to the startup he interviewed with to see what’s up; expecting an answer (or a default)
- And did quite a bit of Elisp this week; it had been some 6 months talk about Emacs/Elisp w/o doing much coding
- Did some work with =lispy= — a little quest that ultimately wasn’t necessary b/c Emacs had some built-in functionality that’s similar. Learned a lot about frames.
- Other news which might be relevant: Leo plans to go on holiday from 9th-23rd of June, so we probably won’t have some sessions then.  Can discuss also a tentative calendar for EmacsConf & diversity
** Ximo (/in absentia/)
- Managed to show up 30s before the end of last week’s meeting
- We were all still happy to have him, and we had a nice chat

* Things to keep in mind
** Record the sodding session

* Agenda                                                                :75m:
:PROPERTIES:
:EFFORT:   1:25
:END:
** JC’s point on Brookes and grants                                    :15m:
- More of a HR business than ERG, and we already talked about it in the coffee chats.
- Had a meeting on [2021-05-07 Fri] with his supervisors at his institutions, and spoke with a degree of candour.
- Recap of the proposal:
  - Using the large collection of mathematical resources that Deyan has been curating for $to_be_filled_by_JC
- Harking back to NA’s old proposition to work on the Future of Work™, we might want to think again about submitting something inspired from the initial project
- How does this relate to Emacs? Maybe via =org-roam-unlinked-references= to understand it
*** Comments
- More to talk about that we have time for
- NA: I had a look at Workona and feels these things are popping up everywhere.  Maybe this is something we should think about when we think about the /future of work/, processes rather than tools
- RSP: But how do people on the grant panel think about it
  - The call for this proposal is already closed.
  - But still good to ask “how are other people thinking about it”
- The next proposal will be informed by JC’s former attempts, so let’s look forward to this (cf. Arxana)
- NA: /Journal of Open Source Software/ could be a good venue for writing things
  - [[https://joss.theoj.org/][Journal of Open Source Software]]
  - Could be a place to drop our whitepaper?
  - There are a lot of packages in there but there might be some other things
  - Joe has 2 found papers that are interesting and wants to write something.  Maybe can try to write a short piece for this.
  - NA: would they be interested in
  - JC: Will try to write an abstract, and we’ll ask the editors’s opinion on this — can defer other things — maybe this will weave in with the upcoming talk on the 18th
** RSP: Report on Emacs NYC                                            :20m:
- Just background: Ray uses this computer during the week w/ video, so what’s up with BBB
- Emacs NYC has been around for several years, meets 1st Monday of every month
- Ray hadn’t been there for a few months but returning it feels like it was just yesterday
- Now it has a nice /3 month schedule/ — one month is lightning talks, the next is a single longer talk (30-90m), 3rd is hacknights or panel discussions
- This has served the group well
- This week was short talks, 3 short talks — e.g., software to interface with iPhone, a bit of programming, etc.
- Next month is a long talk, looking for a speaker — whether we want to to it or if we know someone else who would want?
- We talked about Emacs Newcomers — they were thinking about using BBB, so I told them about using BBB.
- *To what extent do we want to announce our monthly/weekly meetings, or are we not ready for that?  So far they just know we exist.*
*** Discussion
- LV: We’re also dealing with BBB+EmacsConf stuff, so they can handle that with Emacs NYC
- Inviting them here depends on the level of openness
- Technically we would be able to give a talk on the 9th
- July is the next panel discussion, maybe that’s a better fit
- We also could have a ‘panel of newbies’
- Mildly related: JC’s idea about having a ‘Zero to org-roam’ event/session
  - JC was stung by with Charlotte’s remark: “By using github you’re excluding people”
- There are /lots/ of Emacs activities going on (ATX, SF, NYC, PAR, FFM)
  - Next step may be the creation of a ‘topic based user group’ rather than location based one
  - ERG could be one such thing and say: we want to invite people from Emacs NYC, or people from M-x Research, and such
  - If we keep ERG running on Hyperreal as well
*** Going public with ERG- A wheatpaste flyer similar to our abstract for a journal
- We have enough material and discussion that we can go public
- CRS: Part of my question is, is there a public version of these notes? Given [[https://exp2exp.github.io/erg][https://exp2exp.github.io/erg]] the question is actually “do we want to go more public?”
- Logistics: getting back to Emacs NYC — I have let people know
  - The first thing is, do they have anyone lined up for July?
  - If they don’t have anyone lined up for /July 5/, we could be that group (if they do, then we drop it for now)
- Still, Leo won’t be as present as usual.
- We need to figure out if showing up is enough for Emacs NYC (at least for the next couple of sessions), or do we want to present ASAP?
- JC: Showing up on the 5th of July plus scheduling something for August could be good.
- With EmacsConf we are going public with office hours, diversity discussion, and all that.  Maybe it would be a good time to go public with all of this stuff?
- RSP: We could just make the topic broad: ‘What is Emacs research?’
- JC: Summary, judging by today’s discussion, we’d be quite happy to go for a panel (maybe also invite Mark, Alex?).
- RSP: So we’ll speak up about this opportunity in July?
- LV: Maybe give it a week just to think it over.
- JC: This conversation with Emacs NYC is one of many we could be having with regards to going public
** LV: Figuring out our calendar for May/June/July                      :5m:
- LV: On holiday from [2021-06-09 Wed]--[2021-06-23 Wed]
- Probably pretty strongly enforced down time
- Would be good to have a ‘firm pencil’ for activities in July beforehand
- We could have this be a week of break?
- Maybe we can also schedule some lightweight things like a workshop for newcomers
** LV: EmacsConf update                                                :20m:
- We did talk more about the diversity stuff
- Would be back a week before the big event
- The topic of diversity will still be mentioned in the “Improving EmacsConf” emails
- We will be thinking about topics that will be warranted for this kind of discussion — we could be thinking about what the EmacsConf could be doing from the point of view of participants
  - JC: Maybe also talk about activities (e.g., adopting the panel discussions from Emacs NYC)
  - Online vs offline is another topic for another time (?) =#garden=
  - Still focusing on ‘online’
- Live CFP on Monday July 9th
- JC: You did have a bunch of feedback from the last time, what did people say in there?
  - LV: Yes there was a report document
  - JC: Better to have that circulated beforehand so people can read it
*** Other diversity stuff
- JC: Has a contact who might be interested in a further discussion around diversity ([[https://twitter.com/_fionaslater][https://twitter.com/_fionaslater]])
  - Maybe also in a panel with Deb Nicholson
  - Maybe invite her to ERG first?
  - LV: I’m trying to leverage our ability to talk about this topic, and I need to be mindful our our discussions, the little hands that make things possible, etc.
  - If the inner circle topples because people are dissenting, or feeling strongly about their own model, and we will get bad publicity, or people will get rustled the wrong way
  - Leo will probably be the face of the event — to economise energy, it would be good if the diversity discussion wasn’t totally taxing.
- RSP: Other places to have discussions, looking deeper into the topic, not assuming that there’s a consensus — but all of this as a background process relative to EmacsConf
- LV: So, we’re interested in this topic, why not make this one of our ‘warhorses’ — present the topic of diversity as something we’d like to champion.  And I’d be much more comfortable doing this with ERG, where we are happy to challenge ideas, vs EmacsConf which is more about community
- This is a problem with trees vs graphs
- So, maybe good to not have /every person/ come to every possible meeting (e.g., a fortnightly public meeting or a monthly public meeting)
** JC’s points                                                         :6m:
- Coming from an embarrassing experience about forgetting a talk he was supposed to give on Friday
- He could blame other people, e.g. the people managing to calendar, RSP & LV being such a lovable bunch that JC didn’t even think of his meeting.
- …But he won’t.
- JC: doesn’t think that he needs other people to manage his agenda.
- JC: thinks that a social solution would be to announce any upcoming things
- JC: also thought about the topic when he was having trouble communicating with the Peeragogy folks
*** TODO JC’s next talk                                                  :4m:
SCHEDULED:  <2021-05-18 Tue>
- ‘Tools for thought’ revisited
- Ray has recently read id: it’s a summary of quick biographies of people involved in computer networks, starting with Boole and Babbage, moving up to von Neumann, Nelson, online communities
- If it’s not on the calendar it’s not happening
** NA’s thesis                                                          :5m:
- JC’s story at MIT wrt his adviser going away
*** TODO Alex thesis proposal debrief
SCHEDULED:  <2021-05-22 Sa>
*** TODO Noorah’s thesis proposal debrief                               :4m:
SCHEDULED:  <2021-07-24 Sa>
** ----------------------------------------
** Cancelled Demo stuff
Cameron had to leave early, but we might be interested in exploring 
*** Potential demo of [[https://workona.com/][Workona]]                                         :10m:
*** LV: Demo of ranger + zotero workflow                               :5m:
* PAR                                                                   :13m:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:15
:END:
*** 1. Review the intention: what do we expect to learn or make together?
- Expected to meet Cameron and maybe Ximo, hoped to talk more about the biology tools
  - Ximo’s at a family visit
- Sharing updates on Emacs NYC possibilities and EmacsConf developments
- News about Noorah’s thesis
*** 2. Establish what is happening: what and how are we learning?
- Cameron showed up
- We talked about startup life and Institute
- Cameron had to leave early
- We did not get to do a detailed checkin on Noorah’s thesis
- We talked about Leo’s holiday plans and our need to plan ahead
*** 3. What are some different perspectives on what’s happening?
- Joe glad to know that Cameron has the same problems
  - Ray: this relates to the future of work, this is yesterday’s future of work
  - Joe: maybe also relates to Institutions
  - Noorah: does this just relate to white collar
- We are keeping the connection going on the different external projects
- Things were carefully orchestrated and we stayed on schedule
- Leo was thinking about diversity with his ‘EmacsConf’ hat on — maybe the daily quota of Emacs+diversity has been
- "I have a book to recommend but you don’t need to read it"
*** 4. What did we learn or change?
- Ximo’s conference is in 2 months
- Emacs NYC lightning talk style? — we should be thinking about what the public version of the ERG thing is like
- We have started to pencil ourselves in for a panel discussion
- If we are getting the crew back together then we should be thinking about the next heist!
*** 5. What else should we change going forward?
- Our way to track long-running items (Org agenda?)
- Maybe use a todo word inside the notes to grep them
- *During our check-outs, we might want to list upcoming things*
  - This means we might need our calendars open at the end to help remember it
- Wouldn’t it be nice to have events flow from Google Calendar into Org Agenda
**** TODO [#A] Dig out the old Information Epoch essay
- Should narrow it to a sector?
- ‘Technology’ is what created the different colors
- Research is a process that cuts across different domains
- Noorah needs a bit of a break
- Workana — revisited

* Next session
- Revisit our stance with Emacs NYC, especially as to what we’d want to do
- Figure out what to do when LV is on break

* Check-out (exceptional or not)                                         :2m:
:PROPERTIES:
:Effort:   0:05
:END:

** NA
- Happy to be here today and just going to go get stuff done after this
- Next week: Tuesday deadline, a chapter and data module (can show next Saturday), and then a breather and then disseration
** JC
- Feeling well; ERG is always a highlight of the week for him; meeting with Alex also went well
*** TODO Meeting with Thomas
 <2021-05-10 Mon 10:00>
*** TODO Meeting with Alex
 <2021-05-12 Wed 15:00>
*** TODO Meeting with Ray
 <2021-05-12 Wed 15:00>
** RSP
- Will get back to Emacs New York in the way discussed earlier
- Cameron and Ray are still doing ongoing work in Maxima
- Will look forward to discussion with Joe on Wednesday
** LV
- BBB maintenance this week
- Lamented we had gone over time last time
- Excited to read the Emacs manual

* Chat notes

Cameron Smith(Offline)
5:50 PM

https://workona.com/
no
noorah
6:04 PM

https://joss.theoj.org/
ca
Cameron Smith(Offline)
6:07 PM

https://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.02721
ca
Cameron Smith(Offline)
6:10 PM

https://jane.biosemantics.org/
jo
Joe
6:22 PM

So, here's the public-facing index: https://exp2exp.github.io/erg
ca
Cameron Smith(Offline)
6:29 PM

https://github.com/manishkatyan/bbb-streaming
ca
Cameron Smith(Offline)
6:29 PM

https://github.com/aau-zid/BigBlueButton-liveStreaming
ca
Cameron Smith(Offline)
6:30 PM

apologies guys I have to take off for today. I forgot it is 1.5 rather than 1 hour. good to see everyone again!
